Case of interest: Telegraph Co. v. Texas (1882)
-----------------------
ol of state regulations, except such as are strictly of a police character. In the case of The Pensacola Telegraph Company v. The Western Union Telegraph Company, 96 U.S. 1, we held that it was not only the right, but the duty of Congress to take care that intercourse among the States and the transmission of intelligence *646 between them be not obstructed or unnecessarily incumbered by state legislation; and that the act of Congress passed July 24th, 1866, above referred to, so far as it declares that the erection of telegraph lines shall, as against state interference, be free to all who accept its terms and conditions, and that a telegraph company of one State shall not, after accepting them, be excluded by another State from prosecuting its business within her jurisdiction, is a legitimate regulation of commercial intercourse among the States, and is also appropriate legislation to execute the powers of Congress over the postal service. In Western Union Telegraph Company v. Texas, <caseOfInterest>105 U.S. 460</caseOfInterest>, we decided that a State cannot lay a tax on the interstate business of a telegraph company, as it is interstate commerce, and that if the company accepts the provisions of the act of 1866, it becomes an agent of the United States, so far as the business of the government is concerned; and state laws are unconstitutional which impose a tax on messages sent in the service of the government, or sent by any persons from one State to another. In the present case, it is true, the tax is not laid upon individual messages, but it is laid on the occupation, or the business of sending such messages.
It comes plainly within the principle of the decisions lately made by this court in Robbins v. The Taxing District of Shelby County, 120 U.S. 489, and Philadelphia and Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U.S. 326.
It is parallel with the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419. That was a tax on an occupation, and this court held that it was equivalent to a tax on the business carried on, 
-----------------------
od. This is always done, however, with great caution, and an anxious desire to place the final conclusion reached upon the fairest and most just construction of the Constitution in all its parts.
In our opinion such a construction of the Constitution leads to the conclusion that no State has the right to lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation or business of carrying it on, and the reason is that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts to a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress. This is the result of so many recent cases that citation is hardly necessary. As a matter of convenient reference we give the following list: Case of State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U.S. 1; Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U.S. 691; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Texas, <caseOfInterest>105 U.S. 460</caseOfInterest>; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U.S. 69; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U.S. 196; Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S. 622; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U.S. 446; Picard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U.S. 34; Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U.S. 557; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U.S. 489; Philadelphia & Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U.S. 326; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 112 U.S. 347; Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., ante, 411.
We may here repeat, what we have so often said before, *649 that this exemption of interstate and foreign commerce from state regulation does not prevent the State from taxing the property of those engaged in such commerce located within the State as the property of other citizens is taxed, nor from regulating matters of local concern which may incidentally affect commerce, such as wharfage, pilotage, and the like. We have recently had before us the question of taxing the property of a telegraph company, in th
