Case of interest: Philadelphia & Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania (1887)
-----------------------
commercial intercourse among the States, and is also appropriate legislation to execute the powers of Congress over the postal service. In Western Union Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U.S. 460, we decided that a State cannot lay a tax on the interstate business of a telegraph company, as it is interstate commerce, and that if the company accepts the provisions of the act of 1866, it becomes an agent of the United States, so far as the business of the government is concerned; and state laws are unconstitutional which impose a tax on messages sent in the service of the government, or sent by any persons from one State to another. In the present case, it is true, the tax is not laid upon individual messages, but it is laid on the occupation, or the business of sending such messages.
It comes plainly within the principle of the decisions lately made by this court in Robbins v. The Taxing District of Shelby County, 120 U.S. 489, and Philadelphia and Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, <caseOfInterest>122 U.S. 326</caseOfInterest>.
It is parallel with the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419. That was a tax on an occupation, and this court held that it was equivalent to a tax on the business carried on, — (the importation of goods from foreign countries), — and even equivalent to a tax on the imports themselves, and therefore contrary to the clause of the Constitution which prohibits the States from laying any duty on imports. The Maryland act which was under consideration in that case declared that "all importers of foreign articles or commodities, etc., and all other persons solling the same by wholesale, etc., shall, before they are authorized to sell, take out a license, ... for which they shall pay fifty dollars," etc., subject to a penalty for neglect or refusal. Chief Justice Taney, referring to the *647 case of Brown v. Maryland in Almy v. State of California, 24 How. 169, 173, in which it was decided that a state stamp tax on bills of lading was void, said: "We think this case cannot be distinguish
-----------------------
es laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation or business of carrying it on, and the reason is that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts to a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress. This is the result of so many recent cases that citation is hardly necessary. As a matter of convenient reference we give the following list: Case of State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U.S. 1; Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U.S. 691; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U.S. 460; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U.S. 69; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U.S. 196; Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S. 622; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U.S. 446; Picard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U.S. 34; Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U.S. 557; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U.S. 489; Philadelphia & Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, <caseOfInterest>122 U.S. 326</caseOfInterest>; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 112 U.S. 347; Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., ante, 411.
We may here repeat, what we have so often said before, *649 that this exemption of interstate and foreign commerce from state regulation does not prevent the State from taxing the property of those engaged in such commerce located within the State as the property of other citizens is taxed, nor from regulating matters of local concern which may incidentally affect commerce, such as wharfage, pilotage, and the like. We have recently had before us the question of taxing the property of a telegraph company, in the case of Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U.S. 530.
The result of the conclusion which we have reached is, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to reverse the judgment of the Mobile Circuit Court; and it is so ordered.

