Case of interest: Rogers v. Burlington (1866)
-----------------------
, 507 a.
The confining of the power in the present case to a borrowing of money for general purposes on the credit of the city, limits it to the power to borrow money for ordinary governmental purposes, such as are generally carried out with revenues derived from taxation; and the presumption is that the grant of the power was intended to confer the right to borrow money in anticipation of the receipt of revenue taxes, and not to plunge the municipal corporation into a debt on which interest must be paid at the rate of ten per centum per annum, semi-annually, for at least ten years. It is easy for the legislature to confer upon a municipality, when it is constitutional to do so, the power to issue negotiable bonds; and, under the well-settled rule that any doubt as to the existence of such power ought to be determined against its existence, it ought not to be held to exist in the present case.
A review of the cases on this subject in this court will be useful.
In Rogers v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>3 Wall. 654</caseOfInterest>, 666, in 1865, it was held that the statutory power granted to the city of Burlington, *183 Iowa, "to borrow money for any public purpose," gave authority to the city to borrow money to aid a railroad company in building a road for public travel and transportation, and that, as a means of borrowing money to accomplish such object, the city might issue its bonds to be sold by the railroad company to raise the money. Bonds were issued and loaned to the company. They were coupon bonds in the usual form, and were secured by first-mortgage bonds of the company. Suit was brought by a bona fide holder for value, to recover against the city on the coupons, and the case came up on a demurrer to the petition. The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court and judgment rendered for the city; but this court reversed that judgment. In the opinion of this court, as to the power to issue the negotiable bonds, it was said: "Common experience shows that the issuing of bonds by a municipal corporation
-----------------------
rom other and express powers granted, those implications should not be extended beyond the fair inferences to be gathered from the circumstances of each case.
In Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U.S. 400, it was held that the power to issue commercial paper was foreign to the objects of the creation of the political divisions of counties and townships, and was not to be conceded to such organizations unless by virtue of express legislation or by very strong implication from such legislation; and that the power conferred by statutes of Tennessee upon a county, to erect a court-house, jail and other necessary county buildings, did not authorize the issue of commercial paper as evidence of or security for a debt contracted for the construction of such a building. The opinion in the case was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley; and the case of Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, was cited and approved, although the unsuccessful *185 party cited as authority the case of Rogers v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>3 Wall. 654</caseOfInterest>.
In Concord v. Robinson, 121 U.S. 165, it was held that a grant to a municipal corporation of power to appropriate moneys in aid of the construction of a railroad, accompanied by a provision directing the levy and collection of taxes to meet such appropriation, and prescribing no other mode of payment, did not authorize the issuing of negotiable bonds in payment of such appropriation. The opinion of this court was delivered by Mr. Justice Harlan, and the case of Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U.S. 400, was cited and approved.
In Kelley v. Milan, 127 U.S. 139, and Norton v. Dyersburg, 127 U.S. 160, it was held that the power granted to a municipal corporation to become a stockholder in a railroad company did not carry with it the power to issue negotiable bonds in payment of the subscription, unless the latter power was expressly or by reasonable implication conferred by statute. In the opinion in the case of Norton v. Dyersburg, the case of Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U.S. 400, w
-----------------------
f the corporation of the city of Brenham shall not be subject to tax under this act." Special Laws of Texas, pp. 14 and 23.
Under the authority conferred by this charter the city council in 1879 passed an ordinance, entitled, "An ordinance to provide for the issue and sale of fifteen thousand dollars in coupon bonds of the city, to borrow money for general purposes." Bonds, negotiable in form, and to the full amount authorized by the ordinance, were issued by the city in 1879, and the coupons held by the German-American Bank were from the bonds so issued. The court does not hold that the issuing of these bonds was in violation of the constitution of Texas adopted in 1876. But it does hold that, while the city, under its power to borrow, could give to the lender non-negotiable paper as a "voucher" for the repayment of the money borrowed, it could not legally issue negotiable instruments or bonds as evidence of the loan. This view is conceded to be in conflict with Rogers v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>3 Wall. 654</caseOfInterest>, and Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270. But it is said that later *190 adjudications of this court have, in effect, overruled those cases. We cannot give our assent to the doctrine announced in the present case. Nor — we submit with some confidence — is that doctrine sustained by any decision of this court which has been cited.
What was the case of Rogers v. Burlington? Besides the general powers appertaining to municipal corporations, the city of Burlington had express power, by its charter, "to borrow money for any public purpose," the matter being first submitted to popular vote. The people having voted, by the requisite majority, in favor of issuing and lending $75,000 in the bonds of the city to a particular railroad company, bonds for that amount, negotiable in form, were issued. The court held the construction of a railroad to be a public purpose, within the meaning of the charter of the city, and that it made no difference whether the bonds were sold in the market by the off
-----------------------
gislature, *195 "to obtain money on loan, on the faith and credit of said city, for the purposes of contributing to works of internal improvements." Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, said that the fact that the money "was not advanced directly to the city, but, upon its assurance of repayment, to the railroad company, is not a departure even from the letter of the law, much less from its meaning; nor does the fact that the money was advanced partly on the credit of the railroad company diminish the presumed reliance of the purchaser upon that of the city, with which it was joined. It is difficult to conceive of language more comprehensive than that employed, to embrace every form of security in which the faith and credit of the city might be embodied; and that in such cases it is not important to the character of the transaction that the money is obtained in the first instance by the railroad company, upon the credit of the city, was directly ruled in Rogers v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>3 Wall. 654</caseOfInterest>, and affirmed in Town of Venice v. Murdock, 92 U.S. 494." Of course, if the city of Savannah, having the power "to obtain money on loan," could guarantee negotiable bonds, issued by the railroad company for the purpose of raising money to be contributed to works of internal improvement in which the city was interested, the city could have made the loan directly upon its own negotiable bonds.
It is, perhaps, proper to say that our views find support in the admirable commentaries of Judge Dillon on the Law of Municipal Corporations. The court refers to sections 507 and 507 a of those Commentaries. But those sections do not, in any degree, support the conclusion reached in this case. The doctrine which the learned author declares, in those sections, to be alike unsound and dangerous, is, "that a public or municipal corporation possesses the implied power to borrow money for its ordinary purposes, and as incidental thereto the power to issue commercial securities, that is, paper which cut
