Case of interest: Claiborne County v. Brooks (1884)
-----------------------
livered by Mr. Justice Bradley, it is stated that the police jury of the parish of Tensas, Louisiana, which issued the negotiable bonds in question in that case, had no express authority to issue them; that the power could not be implied from the ordinary powers of local administration and police which were conferred upon the boards and trustees of political districts; that it was one thing for county and parish trustees to have the power to incur obligations for work actually done in behalf of the county or parish, and to give proper vouchers therefor, and a totally different thing to have the power of issuing unimpeachable paper obligations, which might be multiplied to an indefinite extent; and that, although the authority for such bodies to issue negotiable paper might be implied in some cases from other and express powers granted, those implications should not be extended beyond the fair inferences to be gathered from the circumstances of each case.
In Claiborne County v. Brooks, <caseOfInterest>111 U.S. 400</caseOfInterest>, it was held that the power to issue commercial paper was foreign to the objects of the creation of the political divisions of counties and townships, and was not to be conceded to such organizations unless by virtue of express legislation or by very strong implication from such legislation; and that the power conferred by statutes of Tennessee upon a county, to erect a court-house, jail and other necessary county buildings, did not authorize the issue of commercial paper as evidence of or security for a debt contracted for the construction of such a building. The opinion in the case was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley; and the case of Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, was cited and approved, although the unsuccessful *185 party cited as authority the case of Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654.
In Concord v. Robinson, 121 U.S. 165, it was held that a grant to a municipal corporation of power to appropriate moneys in aid of the construction of a railroad, accompanied by a provision directing the levy and collection of taxes to meet such appropriation, and prescribing no other mode of payment, did not authorize the issuing of negotiable bonds in payment of such appropriation. The opinion of this court was delivered by Mr. Justice Harlan, and the case of Claiborne County v. Brooks, <caseOfInterest>111 U.S. 400</caseOfInterest>, was cited and approved.
In Kelley v. Milan, 127 U.S. 139, and Norton v. Dyersburg, 127 U.S. 160, it was held that the power granted to a municipal corporation to become a stockholder in a railroad company did not carry with it the power to issue negotiable bonds in payment of the subscription, unless the latter power was expressly or by reasonable implication conferred by statute. In the opinion in the case of Norton v. Dyersburg, the case of Claiborne County v. Brooks, <caseOfInterest>111 U.S. 400</caseOfInterest>, was cited with approval.
In Young v. Clarendon Township, 132 U.S. 340, it was held to be settled law that a municipality has no power to issue its bonds in aid of a railroad, except by legislative permission; and in the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Lamar, the cases of Claiborne County v. Brooks and of Kelley v. Milan were cited and approved.
In Hill v. Memphis, 134 U.S. 198, 203, the opinion of the court being delivered by Mr. Justice Field, it was held that the power conferred by a statute on a municipal corporation to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company did not include the power to issue negotiable bonds representing a debt, in order to pay for that subscription; and it was said that that rule was well settled. It was added: "The inability of municipal corporations to issue negotiable paper for their indebtedness, however incurred, unless authority for that purpose is expressly given or necessarily implied for the execution of other express powers, has b
-----------------------
aid: "Here the authority conferred is to borrow money; yet no money was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were lent. Borrowing money and lending credit are not convertible terms. The two things which they indicate are essentially distinct and different." Mr. Justice Miller, *191 in a separate dissenting opinion, called attention to the fact that the Supreme Court of Iowa had then recently held the bonds, involved in that suit, to be void, upon the ground that the transaction "was a loan of credit, and not a borrowing of money." The principle announced in Rogers v. Burlington was applied in Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270.
The cases, decided since Rogers v. Burlington, which have been cited, in the opinion of the court, as announcing the doctrine that an express power given to a municipal corporation to borrow money does not authorize the execution of negotiable instruments for the money so borrowed, are: Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 570, 572; Claiborne County v. Brooks, <caseOfInterest>111 U.S. 400</caseOfInterest>, 406; Concord v. Robinson, 121 U.S. 165, 167; Kelley v. Milan, 127 U.S. 139, 150; Norton v. Dyersburg, 127 U.S. 160, 175; Young v. Clarendon, 132 U.S. 340; Hill v. Memphis, 134 U.S. 198, 203; and Merrill v. Monticello, 138 U.S. 673, 686, 687.
In Police Jury v. Britton, it appeared that a police jury, in a parish of Louisiana, charged with the supervision and repair of roads, bridges, causeways, dikes, levees and other highways, was prohibited by statute from contracting any debt or pecuniary liability without fully providing in the ordinance creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of the debt so contracted. And the question arose as to whether it could rightfully issue negotiable bonds to take the place of certain orders previously given by it for work done on levees in the parish. The case involved no question as to the scope and effect of an express power in the parish to borrow money. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, after observing that the pol
