Case of interest: Mitchell v. Burlington (1867)
-----------------------
at the issuing of bonds by a municipal corporation as material aid in the construction of a railroad, is merely a customary and convenient mode of borrowing money to accomplish the object; and it cannot make any difference, so far as respects the present question, whether the bonds, as issued by the defendants, were sold in the market by their officers, or were first delivered to the company, and were by their agents sold for the same purpose." Chief Justice Chase and Justices Grier, Miller and Field dissented. Justice Field delivered a dissenting opinion, in which his three associates concurred, and which stated, as to the authority of the city to issue the bonds, that there was no such authority, either in the charter of the city or in any other legislation of the State; that the authority conferred was to borrow money; that no money was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were loaned; and that borrowing money and loaning credit were not convertible terms.
In Mitchell v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>4 Wall. 270</caseOfInterest>, the case of Rogers v. Burlington, supra, was affirmed.
But in Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, (when Justices Wayne, Nelson and Grier had left the bench, and Justices Strong, Bradley and Hunt had come upon it, Chief Justice Chase and Justices Clifford, Swayne, Miller, Davis and Field *184 remaining,) it was held that the trustees or representative officers of a parish, county or other local jurisdiction, invested with the usual powers of administration in specific matters, and the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, have no implied authority to issue negotiable securities, payable in future, of such a character as to be unimpeachable in the hands of bona fide holders, for the purpose of raising money or funding a previous indebtedness. In the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, it is stated that the police jury of the parish of Tensas, Louisiana, which issued the negotiable bonds in question in that case, had no ex
-----------------------
shall not be subject to tax under this act." Special Laws of Texas, pp. 14 and 23.
Under the authority conferred by this charter the city council in 1879 passed an ordinance, entitled, "An ordinance to provide for the issue and sale of fifteen thousand dollars in coupon bonds of the city, to borrow money for general purposes." Bonds, negotiable in form, and to the full amount authorized by the ordinance, were issued by the city in 1879, and the coupons held by the German-American Bank were from the bonds so issued. The court does not hold that the issuing of these bonds was in violation of the constitution of Texas adopted in 1876. But it does hold that, while the city, under its power to borrow, could give to the lender non-negotiable paper as a "voucher" for the repayment of the money borrowed, it could not legally issue negotiable instruments or bonds as evidence of the loan. This view is conceded to be in conflict with Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654, and Mitchell v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>4 Wall. 270</caseOfInterest>. But it is said that later *190 adjudications of this court have, in effect, overruled those cases. We cannot give our assent to the doctrine announced in the present case. Nor 혰 we submit with some confidence 혰 is that doctrine sustained by any decision of this court which has been cited.
What was the case of Rogers v. Burlington? Besides the general powers appertaining to municipal corporations, the city of Burlington had express power, by its charter, "to borrow money for any public purpose," the matter being first submitted to popular vote. The people having voted, by the requisite majority, in favor of issuing and lending $75,000 in the bonds of the city to a particular railroad company, bonds for that amount, negotiable in form, were issued. The court held the construction of a railroad to be a public purpose, within the meaning of the charter of the city, and that it made no difference whether the bonds were sold in the market by the officers of the municipality, or were first 
-----------------------
ess."
The minority dissented, not upon the ground that an express power in a municipal corporation to borrow money did not give authority to execute negotiable instruments for the money borrowed 혰 although that question was upon the very face of the case 혰 but upon the ground that the transaction was not one of borrowing money. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the minority, said: "Here the authority conferred is to borrow money; yet no money was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were lent. Borrowing money and lending credit are not convertible terms. The two things which they indicate are essentially distinct and different." Mr. Justice Miller, *191 in a separate dissenting opinion, called attention to the fact that the Supreme Court of Iowa had then recently held the bonds, involved in that suit, to be void, upon the ground that the transaction "was a loan of credit, and not a borrowing of money." The principle announced in Rogers v. Burlington was applied in Mitchell v. Burlington, <caseOfInterest>4 Wall. 270</caseOfInterest>.
The cases, decided since Rogers v. Burlington, which have been cited, in the opinion of the court, as announcing the doctrine that an express power given to a municipal corporation to borrow money does not authorize the execution of negotiable instruments for the money so borrowed, are: Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 570, 572; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U.S. 400, 406; Concord v. Robinson, 121 U.S. 165, 167; Kelley v. Milan, 127 U.S. 139, 150; Norton v. Dyersburg, 127 U.S. 160, 175; Young v. Clarendon, 132 U.S. 340; Hill v. Memphis, 134 U.S. 198, 203; and Merrill v. Monticello, 138 U.S. 673, 686, 687.
In Police Jury v. Britton, it appeared that a police jury, in a parish of Louisiana, charged with the supervision and repair of roads, bridges, causeways, dikes, levees and other highways, was prohibited by statute from contracting any debt or pecuniary liability without fully providing in the ordinance creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of the d
