Case of interest: Lambert's Lessee v. Payne (1805)
-----------------------
der her deeds acquired all the title of the testator to such lands." 25 Nebraska, 327, 328, 334.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State appears to have been formed upon full consideration of the difficulties of the case; and is entitled to great weight, especially upon the construction of the statute of the State. Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427. And this court, on reconsideration of the whole matter, with the aid of the various judicial opinions upon the subject, and of the learned briefs of counsel, is of opinion that the sound construction of this will, as to the extent of the power conferred on the widow, is in accordance with the conclusion of the state court, and not with the former decision of this court, which must, therefore, be considered as overruled.
The testator's primary object manifestly was to provide for his widow. He begins by giving her "all my estate, real and personal," which of itself would carry a fee, unless restricted by other words. Lambert v. Paine, <caseOfInterest>3 Cranch, 97</caseOfInterest>. He then says "to be and remain hers," which, upon any possible construction, secures to her the full use and enjoyment of the estate, while she holds it. She is also vested, in the most comprehensive terms, "with full power, right and authority to dispose of the same" (which, as no less title has yet been mentioned, naturally means the whole estate) "as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow." This last clause, so far as it controls the previous words, has full effect if construed as limiting the time during which the widow may have the use and enjoyment of the estate, and the power to dispose of it, and not restricting the subject to be disposed of. The power thus conferred, therefore, in its own terms, as well as by the general intent of the testator, gives her during widowhood the right to sell and convey an absolute title in any part of the estate; for it would be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain an adequate price for a title liable to
