Case of interest: Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co. (1895)
-----------------------
notice attached to a patented machine the conditions of its use and the supplies which must be used in the operation of it, under pain of infringement of the patent.
The statutes relating to patents do not provide for any such notice and it can derive no aid from them. Revised Statutes, ยง 4900, requiring that patented articles shall be marked with the word "Patented" affects only the damages recoverable for infringement, Dunlap v. Schofield, 152 U.S. 244, and Rev. Stats., ยง 4901, protects by its penalties the inventor, but neither one contemplates the use of such a "License Notice" as we have here and whatever validity it has must be derived from the general and not from the patent law.
The extent to which the use of the patented machine may validly be restricted to specific supplies or otherwise by special contract between the owner of a patent and the purchaser or licensee is a question outside the patent law and with it we are not here concerned. Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., <caseOfInterest>157 U.S. 659</caseOfInterest>.
The inquiry presented by this record, as we have stated it, is important and fundamental, and it requires that we shall determine the meaning of Congress when in Rev. Stats., ยง 4884, it provided that "Every patent shall contain . . . a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns, for the term of seventeen years, of the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention or discovery throughout the United States, and the Territories thereof." We are concerned only with the right to "use," authorized to be granted by this statute, for it is under warrant of this *510 right only that the plaintiff can and does claim validity for its warning notice.
The words used in the statute are few, simple and familiar, they have not been changed substantially since they were first used in the Act of 1790, c. 7, 1 Stat. 109; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U.S. 1, 9, and their meaning would seem not to be doubtful if we can avoid reading into them that which they really do not contain.
In interpreting this
