Case of interest: Friedlander v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co. (1889)
-----------------------
nnell acting as the agent of respondent in giving the petitioner the false notice, and set up that the petitioner was induced to pay the draft by the representation that the cotton had arrived. The court, disregarding any question of want of due care on the part of respondent, instructed the jury that if it found that the false notice by McDonnell to petitioner was given within the scope of his authority and that petitioner had in fact been induced by the false statement to take up the draft, it should return a verdict for the petitioner. Judgment on the verdict for petitioner was reversed by the court of appeals on the ground that an employer is not liable for the false statements of an agent made solely to effect a fraudulent design for his own benefit and not in behalf of the employer or his business, the court saying (p. 884): "Under the general rule prevailing in the federal courts an employer is not liable for such conduct of his employee, Friedlander v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., <caseOfInterest>130 U.S. 416</caseOfInterest> . . ."
In the Friedlander case the action was brought to recover for the non-delivery of merchandise, purported to have been received by the defendant carrier and covered by a bill of lading issued by its agent, admittedly authorized *354 to issue bills of lading in the usual course of business. The bill had been fraudulently issued by the agent for his own enrichment and the described merchandise had not, in fact, been received by the defendant or its agent. The court held that there was no implied authority in the agent to issue bills of lading for merchandise not actually received, and that there was consequently no contractual obligation on the part of the carrier. As the only act of the agent complained of, the issuance of the bill of lading, was thus held not to be within the scope of his authority, that holding was sufficient to dispose of the entire case. To this extent the case has been often cited and followed. Louisville & Nashville R.R. Co. v. Nat. Park Bk., 188 Ala. 109, 
