Case of interest: New York Ex Rel. Rogers v. Graves (1937)
-----------------------
division 2f of § 359, since repealed, exempted from the tax "Salaries, wages and other compensation received from the United States of officials or employees thereof, including persons in the military or naval forces of the United States. . . ." Petitioners, *476 New York State Tax Commissioners, rejected respondent's claim for a refund of the tax based on the ground that his salary was constitutionally exempt from state taxation because the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is an instrumentality of the United States Government and that he, during the taxable year, was an employee of the federal government engaged in the performance of a governmental function.
On review by certiorari the Board's action was set aside by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York, 253 A.D. 91; 1 N.Y.S.2d 195, whose order was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 278 N.Y. 691; 16 N.E.2d 404. Both courts held respondent's salary was free from tax on the authority of New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, <caseOfInterest>299 U.S. 401</caseOfInterest>, which sustained the claim that New York could not constitutionally tax the salary of an employee of the Panama Rail Road Company, a wholly-owned corporate instrumentality of the United States. We granted certiorari, 305 U.S. 592, the constitutional question presented by the record being of public importance.
The Home Owners' Loan Corporation was created pursuant to § 4 (a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 128, 12 U.S.C. § 1461 et seq., which was enacted to provide emergency relief to home owners, particularly to assist them with respect to home mortgage indebtedness. The corporation, which is authorized to lend money to home owners on mortgages and to refinance home mortgage loans within the purview of the Act, is declared by § 4 (a) to be an instrumentality of the United States. Its shares of stock are wholly government-owned. § 4 (b). Its funds are deposited in the Treasury of the United States, and the compensation of its employees is paid by drafts upon the Treasury
-----------------------
on, drawn in many particulars with purposed vagueness so as to leave room for the unfolding future. But the ultimate touchstone of constitutionality is the Constitution itself and not what we *492 have said about it.[11] Neither Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, and its offspring, nor Collector v. Day, supra, and its, can stand appeal to the Constitution and its historic purposes. Since both are the starting points of an interdependent doctrine, both should be, as I assume them to be, overruled this day. Whether Congress may, by express legislation, relieve its functionaries from their civic obligations to pay for the benefits of the State governments under which they live is matter for another day.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and I are of opinion that the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, being an instrumentality of the United States heretofore deemed immune from state taxation, "it necessarily results," as held in New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves (1937) <caseOfInterest>299 U.S. 401</caseOfInterest>, "that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune"; and that the judgment of the state court, unquestionably required by that decision, should be affirmed.
From the decision just announced, it is clear that the Court has overruled Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County (1842) 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day (1871) 11 Wall. 113; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, and Brush v. Commissioner (1937) 300 U.S. 352. Thus now it appears that the United States has always had power to tax salaries of state officers and employees and that *493 similarly free have been the States to tax salaries of officers and employees of the United States. The compensation for past as well as for future service to be taxed and the rates prescribed in the exertion of the newly disclosed power depend on legislative discretion not subject to judicial revision. Futile indeed are the vague intimations that this Court may protect against exce
-----------------------
nt of the implied superior power of Congress to fix the compensation of government employees without diminution by state taxation.

In Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, this Court held that the salary of a state probate judge was constitutionally immune from federal income tax on the grounds that the salary of an officer of a state is exempt from federal taxation if the function he performs as an officer is exempt, citing Dobbins v. Commissioners, supra, and that there was an implied constitutional restriction upon the power of the national government to tax a state in the exercise of those functions which were essential to the maintenance of state governments as they were organized at the time when the Constitution was adopted. The possibility that a non-discriminatory tax upon the income of a state officer did not involve any substantial interference with the functioning of the state government was not discussed either in this or the Dobbins case.
In New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, <caseOfInterest>299 U.S. 401</caseOfInterest>, the question was whether the salary of the general counsel of the Panama Rail Road Company was exempt from state income tax because the railroad company was an instrumentality of the federal government. The sole question raised by the taxing state was whether the railroad company was a government instrumentality. The Court, having found that the railroad company was such an instrumentality, disposed of the matter of tax exemption of the salary of its employees by declaring: "The railroad company being immune from state taxation, it necessarily results that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune." New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, 408.
In Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 352, the applicable treasury regulation upon which the government relied exempted from federal income tax the compensation of "state officers and employees" for "services rendered in connection with the exercise of an essential government
-----------------------
.
[4]   "I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, because, it seems to me that the general government has the same power of taxing the income of officers of the State governments as it has of taxing that of its own officers. . . . In my judgment, the limitation of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present decision establishes, will be found very difficult of control. Where are we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State governments which will be interfered with by Federal taxation? . . . How can we now tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but regard it as founded on a fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous consequences." (11 Wall. 113, 128-29.)
[5]   E.g., Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U.S. 501; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218; Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U.S. 620; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 570; Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393; N.Y. ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, <caseOfInterest>299 U.S. 401</caseOfInterest>; Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 352.
[6]   E.g., Mr. Justice Brandeis, dissenting, in Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U.S. 609, 615; Mr. Justice Holmes, dissenting, in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218, 222; Mr. Justice Stone, dissenting, in Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 570, 580; Mr. Justice Roberts, dissenting, in Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 352, 374. See, also, Mr. Justice Black, concurring, in Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U.S. 405, 424.
[7]   Bank of Toronto v. Lambe, 12 App. Cas. 575; D'Emden v. Pedder, 1 C.L.R. 91.
[8]   Especially is this true of the Australian Constitution. One of its framers, who afterwards became one of the most distinguished of Australian judges, Mr. Justice Higgins, characterized it as having followed our Constitution with "pedantic imitation." Australasian Temperance & G.M. Life Assurance Society v. Howe, 31 C.L.R. 290, 330.
[9]   Abbott v. City of St. John, 40 Can. Sup. Ct. 597; Caron v. The King, (1924) A.C. 999; Amalga
