Case of interest: Ribnik v. McBride (1928)
-----------------------

313 U.S. 236 (1941)
OLSEN, SECRETARY OF LABOR OF NEBRASKA,
v.
NEBRASKA EX REL. WESTERN REFERENCE & BOND ASSOCIATION, INC., ET AL.
No. 671.
Supreme Court of United States.
Argued April 8, 9, 1941.
Decided April 28, 1941.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.
Mr. Don Kelley, Assistant Attorney General of Nebraska, with whom Mr. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt for respondents.
*240 MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
In reliance upon Ribnik v. McBride, <caseOfInterest>277 U.S. 350</caseOfInterest>, the Supreme Court of Nebraska held, one judge dissenting, *241 that a statute of that state fixing the maximum compensation which a private employment agency might collect from an applicant for employment[1] was unconstitutional[2]*242 under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 138 Neb. 574, 293 N.W. 393. The case is here on a petition for certiorari which we granted because *243 of the importance of the constitutional question which was raised.
The action is for a peremptory writ of mandamus ordering petitioner, Secretary of Labor of Nebraska, to issue a license to the relator[3] to operate a private employment agency for the year commencing May 1, 1940. The license was withheld because of relator's refusal to limit its maximum compensation, as provided by the statute, to ten per cent of the first month's salary or wages of the person for whom employment was obtained. The petition in mandamus challenged the constitutionality of those provisions of the act.[4] The answer sought to sustain them by alleging that the business of a private employment agency is "vitally affected with a public interest" and subject to such regulation under the police power of the state. The relator's motion for judgment on the pleadings was sustained and it was ordered that a peremptory writ of mandamus should issue.
We disagree with the Supreme Court of Nebraska. The statutory provisions in question do not violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
*244 The drift away from Ribnik v. McBride, <caseOfInterest>supra</caseOfInterest>, has been so great that it can no longer be deemed a controlling authority. It was decided in 1928. In the following year this Court held that Tennessee had no power to fix prices at which gasoline might be sold in the state. Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235. Save for that decision and Morehead v. Tipaldo, 298 U.S. 587, holding unconstitutional a New York statute authorizing the fixing of women's wages, the subsequent cases in this Court have given increasingly wider scope to the price-fixing powers of the states and of Congress.[5]Tagg Bros. v. United States, 280 U.S. 420, decided in 1930, upheld the power of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Packers and Stockyards Act to determine the just and reasonable charges of persons engaged in the business of buying and selling in interstate commerce livestock at a stockyard on a commission basis. In 1931 a New Jersey statute limiting commissions of agents of fire insurance companies was sustained by O'Gorman & Young v. Hartfor
