Case of interest: Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v. Doughton (1926)
-----------------------
ents. Under this statute the net taxable estate is arrived at by deducting from the gross estate, as defined by ยง 249-r, the specified deductions allowed by ยง 249-s. Section 249-r, so far as relevant, provides:
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including the value at the time of his death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated . . .
"7. To the extent of any property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent (a) by will . . ."
An order of the New York Surrogate's Court, 172 Misc. 426, 15 N.Y.S.2d 208, reduced the estate tax assessed against the decedent's estate by excluding from his gross estate the share of the trust fund passing to the widow by the exercise of the power, on the ground that the state was without constitutional authority to tax the exercise by a resident donee of a power of appointment created by a *660 nonresident donor, citing Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v. Doughton, <caseOfInterest>272 U.S. 567</caseOfInterest>. The New York Court of Appeals affirmed the order without opinion, 286 N.Y. 596, 35 N.E.2d 937, but certified by its remittitur that it held that the taxing statute, as sought to be applied in this proceeding, violates the Fourteenth Amendment. We granted certiorari, 314 U.S. 601, because of the importance of the question presented.
For purposes of estate and inheritance taxation, the power to dispose of property at death is the equivalent of ownership. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U.S. 625; Whitney v. Tax Comm'n, 309 U.S. 530, 538; see Gray, Rule Against Perpetuities, 3d ed. 1916, ยง 524. It is a potential source of wealth to the appointee. The disposition of wealth effected by its exercise or relinquishment at death is one form of the enjoyment of wealth and is an appropriate subject of taxation. The power to tax "is an incident of sovereignty, and is coextensive with that to which it is an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign power of a State extends are objects of taxation."
-----------------------
some other mode, or because it may be necessary for the transferee to invoke the laws of Massachusetts in order to acquire control of the property. A transfer in one state of a chose in action or a share of stock may be taxed there even though the transferee in order to enjoy its benefits must depend in part upon the law of the state of the debtor or of the corporation. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U.S. 1, 10-17. Here the relationship of the power to Massachusetts does not leave New York without sufficient control over the donee and his exercise of the power to support its constitutional authority to tax. For the fact remains that he, as a resident enjoying the protection of New York's laws and owing to it the duty of financial support, has disposed of wealth by a will executed and probated in New York with the same result as if he had owned the property. This transmission of wealth at death by a resident is not a forbidden source of revenue to the state.
Wachovia Trust Co. v. Doughton, <caseOfInterest>supra,</caseOfInterest> on which respondents rely, denied the constitutional power of a state to tax the effective exercise of a testamentary power in circumstances like the present. The only grounds for the decision were that the intangibles held in trust in another state, which were the subject of the power, had no situs in the state where the domiciled testator had exercised the power by his will; that its exercise was subject to the laws *665 of Massachusetts where the will donating the power and establishing the trust had been probated, and that no "right" exercised by the donee was conferred by the state of his domicile where it was exercised.
The conclusion there reached and the reasons advanced in its support cannot be reconciled with the decision and the reasoning of the Bullen, the McCanless and the Elliott cases. It is plain that if appropriate emphasis be placed on the orderly administration of justice rather than blind adherence to conflicting precedents, the Wachovia case must be overruled. The
