Case of interest: Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp. (1939)
-----------------------
do the Committee Reports advert to private operators, except as they may be affected by ยง 1. The liability of an agent for his own negligence has long been embedded in the law. Quinn v. Southgate Nelson Corp., 121 F.2d 190, is a recent application of that principle to a situation very close to the present one. But the principle is an ancient one and applies even to certain acts of public officers or public instrumentalities. As stated in Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. Emergency Fleet Corp., 258 U.S. 549, 567, "An instrumentality of government he might be and for the greatest ends, but the agent, because he is agent, does not cease to be answerable for his acts." In that case the Fleet Corporation was held to be amenable to suit. And that policy has been followed. For when it comes to the utilization of corporate facilities[2] in the broadening phases of federal activities in the commercial or business field, immunity from suit is not favored. Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., <caseOfInterest>306 U.S. 381</caseOfInterest>; Federal Housing Administration v. Burr, 309 U.S. 242. Congress adopted that policy when it made corporations wholly owned by the United States suable on maritime causes of action under ยง 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act. That it had the power to grant or withhold immunity from suit on behalf of governmental corporations is plain. Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U.S. 229; Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Menihan Corp., 312 U.S. 81. We may also assume that it would have the power to grant immunity to private operators of government vessels for their torts. But such a basic change in one of the fundamentals *581 of the law of agency should hardly be left to conjecture. The withdrawal of the right to sue the agent for his torts would result at times in a substantial dilution of the rights of claimants. Assuming that the ordinary rules of agency apply in determining whether the United States or the Maritime Commission is responsible under ยง 2 of the Act for torts of private operators such 
