Case of interest: Guaranty Trust and Safe Deposit Co. v. Green Cove Springs and Melrose Railroad (1891)
-----------------------
been thought to extend to situations where his liability was based on his own fault. 4 Williston, Contracts (1936 ed.), ยง 1026. Hence we cannot conclude that, in all cases where a private operator of a government vessel under an agency agreement is sued, the United States would as a matter of law ultimately be liable to pay in absence of an express provision for exoneration. It is hard to believe that Congress had any such notion when *583 it passed the Suits in Admiralty Act. To attribute that idea to it would be to give the Act a construction which would in practical effect encourage the assumption by the United States of the obligations of private persons.[3]
Moreover, if petitioner had a cause of action against respondent, it is difficult to see how she could be deprived of it by reason of a contract between respondent and the Commission. Immunity from suit on a cause of action which the law creates cannot be so readily obtained. Cf. Guaranty Trust & S.D. Co. v. Green Cove R. Co., <caseOfInterest>139 U.S. 137</caseOfInterest>, 143. The rights of principal and agent inter se are not the measure of the rights of third persons against either of them for their torts. It is, of course, true that government contractors obtain certain immunity in connection with work which they do pursuant to their contractual undertaking with the United States. Yearsley v. Ross Construction Co., 309 U.S. 18, was a recent example. In that case the contractor in building dikes in the Missouri River for the United States had washed away a part of the plaintiff's land. We held that the contractor was not liable, saying (pp. 20-21) "that if this authority to carry out the project was validly conferred, that is, if what was done was within the constitutional power of Congress, there is no liability on the part of the contractor for executing its will." But here the situation is quite different. The question is not whether the Commission had authority to delegate to respondent responsibilities for managing and operating the vessel as i
