Case of interest: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. v. Smith (1939)
-----------------------
t.[1] He held that the proceeding was brought too late to recover for the negligence under the Jones Act, and that the "Wichita Falls" was not unseaworthy by reason of the defective rope used in rigging the staging, citing Plamals v. The Pinar Del Rio, 277 U.S. 151, 155. He accordingly denied indemnity to petitioner, but gave judgment in his favor for maintenance and cure.
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed, 129 F.2d 857, 135 F.2d 602, by a divided court, resting its decision on the statement quoted from the opinion in The Pinar Del Rio, supra, 155, that "The record does not support the suggestion that the `Pinar Del Rio' was unseaworthy. The mate selected a bad rope when good ones were available." We granted certiorari, 320 U.S. 725, upon a petition which urged that the statement quoted from The Pinar Del Rio, supra, does not rule this case, and that the decision below is inconsistent with the decisions in The Osceola, 189 U.S. 158, and in Socony-Vacuum Co. v. Smith, <caseOfInterest>305 U.S. 424</caseOfInterest>.
The sole issue presented by the petition for certiorari is that of respondent's liability to indemnify petitioner for the injury suffered by reason of the defective staging. No question is raised with respect to petitioner's right to recover under the Jones Act or his right to the award of maintenance and cure or its adequacy.
A finding of seaworthiness is usually a finding of fact. Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar Co., 248 U.S. 139, 145; Steel v. State Line S.S. Co., L.R. 3 A.C. 72, 81-82, 90-91. Ordinarily we do not, in admiralty, more than in other *99 cases, review the concurrent findings of fact of two courts below. The Carib Prince, 170 U.S. 655, 658; The Wildcroft, 201 U.S. 378, 387; Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar Co., supra; Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254 U.S. 1, 13; Just v. Chambers, 312 U.S. 383, 385. Here, however, both courts below, holding themselves bound by The Pinar Del Rio, supra, have, on the facts found, held as a matter of law that the staging was seawor
-----------------------
. It was unseaworthy in the sense that it was inadequate for the purpose for which it was ordinarily used, because of the defective rope with which it was rigged. Its inadequacy rendered it unseaworthy, whether the mate's failure to observe the defect was negligent or unavoidable. Had it been adequate, petitioner would not have been injured and his injury was the proximate and immediate consequence of the unseaworthiness. See The Osceola, supra, 174-175, and cases cited. Any negligence of the mate in selecting the rope and ordering its use as a part of the staging, or of the boatswain in using it for that purpose, could not relieve respondent of the duty to furnish a seaworthy staging. Whether petitioner knew of the defective condition of the rope does not appear, but in any case the seaman, in the performance of his duties, is not deemed to assume the risk of unseaworthy appliances. The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 123-124; Beadle v. Spencer, supra, 129-130; Socony-Vacuum Co. v. Smith, <caseOfInterest>supra</caseOfInterest>.
Nor does the fact that there was sound rope on board, which might have been used to rig a safe staging, afford an excuse to the owner for the failure to provide a safe one. We have often had occasion to emphasize the conditions of the seaman's employment, see Socony-Vacuum Co. v. Smith, <caseOfInterest>supra,</caseOfInterest> 430-431 and cases cited, which have been deemed to make him a ward of the admiralty and to place large responsibility for his safety on the owner. He is subject to the rigorous discipline of the sea, and all the conditions of his service constrain him to accept, without critical examination and without protest, working conditions and appliances as commanded by his superior officers. These conditions, which have generated the exacting requirement *104 that the vessel or the owner must provide the seaman with seaworthy appliances with which to do his work, likewise require that safe appliances be furnished when and where the work is to be done. For, as was said in The Osceola, supra, 175, the owner's obligation is "to supply and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship." (Italics supplied.) It is not enough that the "Wichita Falls" had on board sound rope which could have been used to make the staging seaworthy, if in fact the staging was unsafe because sound rope was
-----------------------
rd to the owner's negligence, the vessel was unseaworthy when she left the dock, and the court held (p. 259): ". . . if thus unseaworthy and one of the crew received damage as the direct result thereof, he was entitled to recover compensatory damages." (Italics supplied.) The court cited, amongst other cases, The Osceola.
I am at a loss to understand the citation of this case as authority for the present decision. The reasoning of the court's opinion seems to be this: In the Carlisle Packing Co. case recovery was permitted because the injury was the direct result of unseaworthiness. That decision, therefore, requires that the owner be held liable in the instant case although the seaman's injury was not the direct result of unseaworthiness, but of the mate's negligence. It must be upon the basis of such reasoning that the Pinar Del Rio case is overruled and the judgment below reversed.
There is some suggestion that the Pinar Del Rio case was overruled by Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. v. Smith, <caseOfInterest>305 U.S. 424</caseOfInterest>. It need only be said that the Pinar Del Rio case was not cited in the briefs of counsel in the Socony case nor referred to in the opinion and that in fact the Socony decision involved and purported to deal only with the general doctrine of assumption of risk and not with the defense of fellow servant's negligence. That the defenses are not the same is made plain by the fact that it has always been held that a fellow servant's negligence is no defense in actions brought under the Federal Employers' *112 Liability Act,[4] whereas assumption of other risks was a defense[5] until Congress recently explicitly acted to abolish it as such.[6]
Indeed, if in the Socony case, the suit had involved a fellow servant's negligence instead of the seaman's assumption of the risk involved in the use of an unsafe appliance supplied by the vessel, the case would have been so plainly ruled by earlier decisions[7] that it would have merited no consideration, much less an opinion, by this court.
The state
