Case of interest: McAllister v. Cosmopolitan Shipping Co. (1948)
-----------------------
master exercised "full control, responsibility and authority with respect to the navigation and management of the vessel" as provided in ยง 3A (d) of the contract. See p. 796, infra. Because of alleged negligence of the master and officers in furnishing proper treatment he suffered permanent injury from the disease. McAllister sued the petitioner, Cosmopolitan, under the Jones Act. The complaint alleged that Cosmopolitan "managed, operated and controlled" The Haines under a General Agency Agreement with its owner, that McAllister was in the employ of Cosmopolitan, and that his injuries resulted from the negligence of Cosmopolitan, "its agents, servants, and employees" in failing to take precautions against a known poliomyelitis epidemic and in failing to provide proper treatment. The answer denied these allegations. The jury found a verdict for respondent for $100,000.
On appeal the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. McAllister v. Cosmopolitan Shipping Co., <caseOfInterest>169 F.2d 4</caseOfInterest>. While recognizing that Cosmopolitan was "a shipping company which contracted with the War Shipping Administration to attend to the accounting and certain other shoreside business of The Haines . . . in accordance with the standard form of General Agency Service Agreement," id. at p. 5, the court felt itself bound by the decision of this Court in Hust v. Moore-McCormack Lines, supra. It relied upon the fact that we expressly distinguished the Hust *787 case in Caldarola v. Eckert, supra. The Court of Appeals reached this conclusion despite the fact that the injury to Hust occurred prior to the Clarification Act, and the injury here occurred subsequent to that act. In its view the Hust case held, as a matter of law, that before the Clarification Act a seaman under the Jones Act could recover for a tort against a service agreement general agent, as an employer. The court did not perceive how the Clarification Act changed this liability. <caseOfInterest>169 F.2d 4</caseOfInterest>, 8.

I.
We are impelled to the conclusion that the Clarification Act affords no basis for distinguishing the present case from the Hust case and that the reasoning in the later Caldarola case, which we accept as sound, calls for the rejection of the basis of the Hust case. The Hust case went on the theory that the general agents for the United States under the same standard service agreement were employers of the injured seaman, Hust, for the purposes of liability under the Jones Act.[6] The general agent was found to be liable to the seaman by two steps of reasoning: first, that the overruling of Fleet Corporation v. Lustgarten, 280 U.S. 320, by Brady v. Roosevelt S.S. Co., 317 U.S. 575, gave a seaman a right to sue under the Jones Act such general agents as were employed under contracts like Moore-McCormack's for torts committed against seamen by masters and crew, 328 U.S. 716-722; second, that although "technically the agreement *788 made Hust an employee of the United States," p. 
