Case of interest: Hughes v. Fetter (1951)
-----------------------
ntractors, *413 refusing to make relief by way of workmen's compensation the exclusive remedy. Baldwin Co. v. Maner, supra. Her interests are large and considerable and are to be weighed not only in the light of the facts of this case but by the kind of situation presented. For we write not only for this case and this day alone, but for this type of case. The State where the tort occurs certainly has a concern in the problems following in the wake of the injury. The problems of medical care and of possible dependents are among these, as Pacific Employers Insurance Co. v. Commission, supra, emphasizes. Id., at 501. A State that legislates concerning them is exercising traditional powers of sovereignty. Cf. Watson v. Employers Liability Corp., 348 U.S. 66, 73. Arkansas therefore has a legitimate interest in opening her courts to suits of this nature, even though in this case Carroll's injury may have cast no burden on her or on her institutions.
This is not a case like Hughes v. Fetter, <caseOfInterest>341 U.S. 609</caseOfInterest>, where the State of the forum seeks to exclude from its courts actions arising under a foreign statute. In that case, we held that Wisconsin could not refuse to entertain a wrongful death action under an Illinois statute for an injury occurring in Illinois, since we found no sufficient policy considerations to warrant such refusal. And see Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U.S. 629. The present case is a much weaker one for application of the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Arkansas, the State of the forum, is not adopting any policy of hostility to the public Acts of Missouri. It is choosing to apply its own rule of law to give affirmative relief for an action arising within its borders.
Missouri can make her Compensation Act exclusive, if she chooses, and enforce it as she pleases within her borders. Once that policy is extended into other States, different considerations come into play. Arkansas can adopt Missouri's policy if she likes. Or, as the Pacific *414 Employers Insurance Co. case tea
-----------------------
y occurred would be powerless to provide any remedies or safeguards to nonresident employees working within its borders. We do not think the Full Faith and Credit Clause demands that subserviency from the State of the injury.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE BURTON and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN join, dissenting.
In order to place the problems presented by this case in the proper context for adjudication, it has seemed to me desirable to examine the course of the Court's decisions touching the constitutional requirement for giving full faith and credit to statutes of a sister State.
The cases fall into three main groups:[1]
(1) Those in which the forum was called upon to give effect to a sister-state statute and declined to do so.

Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U.S. 640; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U.S. 55; Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. Co. v. George, 233 U.S. 354; Clark v. Williard, 292 U.S. 112; Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U.S. 629; Hughes v. Fetter, <caseOfInterest>341 U.S. 609</caseOfInterest>; First National Bank of Chicago v. United Air Lines, Inc., 342 U.S. 396; Wells v. Simonds Abrasive Co., 345 U.S. 514.
*415 From these cases it appears that the forum cannot, by statute or otherwise, refuse to enforce a sister-state statute giving a transitory cause of action, whether in contract or tort. E. g., Broderick v. Rosner, supra; Hughes v. <caseOfInterest>Fetter, supra</caseOfInterest>. Indeed, the forum may permissibly go a step in the other direction and disregard the venue provisions of an out-of-state statute which would have prevented the forum from enforcing the right. Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. Co. v. George, supra. The forum may, however, apply its own more restrictive statute of limitations to an outside wrongful death action, Wells v. Simonds Abrasive Co., supra, and dicta indicate that it may refuse to enforce a penal law, a law found antagonistic to the forum's public policy, or a law which requires specialized proceedings or remedies not available in the forum, see Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U. S., at 642-643; Hughes v. Fetter, 341 U. S., at 612.
(2) Those in which the forum applied its own statute rather than that of a sister State because the latter was not of limiting exclusiveness, or in which the forum applied the sister-state statute because the forum's was not exclusive.

Bond v. Hume, 243 U.S. 15; Ohio v. Chattanooga Boiler & Tank Co., 289 U.S. 439
