Case of interest: North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet (1932)
-----------------------
 supra, at p. 424. In such case, the taxpayer has `actual command over the property taxed—the actual benefit for which the tax is paid,' Corliss v. Bowers, supra. This standard brings wrongful appropriations within the broad sweep of `gross income'; it excludes loans. When a law-abiding taxpayer mistakenly receives income in one year, which receipt is assailed and found to be invalid in a subsequent year, the taxpayer must nonetheless report the amount as `gross income' in the year received. United States v. Lewis, supra; Healy v. Commissioner, supra."
This novel formula finds no support in our prior decisions, least of all in those which are cited. Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U.S. 376, involved nothing more than an inter vivos trust created by the taxpayer to pay the income to his wife. Since he had reserved the power to alter or abolish the trust at will, its income was taxable to him under the express provisions of § 219 (g), (h) of the Revenue Act of 1924. North American Oil v. Burnet, <caseOfInterest>286 U.S. 417</caseOfInterest>, is the case which introduced the principle since used to facilitate uniformity and certainty in annual tax accounting procedure, i. e., that a taxpayer must report in gross income, in the year in which received, money or property acquired under a "claim of right"—a colorable claim of the right to exclusive possession of the money or property. Thus, in its complete form, the sentence in North American Oil from which the above-quoted fragment was extracted reads: "If a taxpayer receives earnings under a claim of right and without *257 restriction as to its [sic] disposition, he has received income which he is required to return, even though it may still be claimed that he is not entitled to retain the money, and even though he may still be adjudged liable to restore its equivalent." Id., at 424. (Emphasis added.) But embezzled funds, like stolen property generally, are not "earnings" in any sense and are held without a vestige of a colorable claim of right; they constitute the principa
-----------------------
 five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution." (26 U.S. C. (1952 ed.) § 145 (b).)
[5]  § 7201. Attempt to Evade or Defeat Tax.

"Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution." (26 U.S. C. § 7201.)
[6]  The dissenters in Rutkin stated that the Court had rejected the Wilcox interpretation of § 22 (a). Id., at 140.
[7]  The Government contends that the adoption in Wilcox of a claim of right test as a touchstone of taxability had no support in the prior cases of this Court; that the claim of right test was a doctrine invoked by the Court in aid of the concept of annual accounting, to determine when, not whether, receipts constituted income. See North American Oil v. Burnet, <caseOfInterest>286 U.S. 417</caseOfInterest>; United States v. Lewis, 340 U.S. 590; Healy v. Commissioner, 345 U.S. 278. In view of our reasoning set forth below, we need not pass on this contention. The use to which we put the claim of right test here is only to demonstrate that, whatever its validity as a test of whether certain receipts constitute income, it calls for no distinction between Wilcox and Rutkin.
[8]  In Marienfeld v. United States, 214 F.2d 632, the Eighth Circuit stated, "We find it difficult to reconcile the Wilcox case with the later opinion of the Supreme Court in Rutkin . . . ." Id., at 636. The Second Circuit announced, in United States v. Bruswitz, 219 F.2d 59, "It is difficult to perceive what, if anything, is left of the Wilcox holding after Rutkin . . . ." Id., at 61. The Seventh Circuit's prior decision in Macias v. Commissioner, 255 F.2d 23, observed, "If this reasoning [of Rutkin] had been employed in Wilcox, we see no escape from the conclusion that the decision in that case would have been differe
-----------------------
ed in the Court's opinion in Rutkin: "[Rutkin] induced Reinfeld to consent to pay the money by creating a fear in Reinfeld that harm otherwise would come to him and to his family. Reinfeld thereupon delivered his own money to petitioner. Petitioner's control over the cash so received was such that, in the absence of Reinfeld's unlikely repudiation of the transaction and demand for the money's return, petitioner could enjoy its use as fully as though his title to it were unassailable." Rutkin v. United States, 343 U.S. 130, 136-137. (Emphasis supplied.)
[27]  The analogy between the borrower and the embezzler was lucidly analyzed by Judge Sibley in McKnight v. Commissioner, 127 F.2d 572, 573-574.

The several cases relied on by the Court do not, in our judgment, justify imposing a tax upon embezzled money. Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U.S. 376, involved income accumulating in a trust fund belonging to the taxpayer and over which he retained control. North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet, <caseOfInterest>286 U.S. 417</caseOfInterest>; United States v. Lewis, 340 U.S. 590; and Healy v. Commissioner, 345 U.S. 278, were cases in which the taxpayer had asserted a bona fide, though mistaken, claim of right. In North American Oil, the taxpayer not only had a bona fide claim to the money taxed, but there had been an adjudication that he was entitled to it, and there was only the tenuous possibility that a competing claimant might later upset that adjudication. The Lewis and Healy cases involved a tax on payments made and received as a result of mutual mistake, and it was held that the administration of the tax laws on an annual basis need not be upset for the convenience of those who caused the mistaken payments to be made and reported as income. By contrast, the victims do not cause embezzlements, and the Government is not misled or inconvenienced under Wilcox because the embezzler is always fully aware that the embezzled funds are not rightfully his and presumably will not report otherwise.
[28]  See the dissenting opi
