Case of interest: Green v. United States (1957)
-----------------------
 affirmed the second conviction, rejecting petitioner's argument, among others, that his retrial for murder constituted double jeopardy. Price v. State, 118 Ga. App. 207, 163 S.E.2d 243 (1968). The Court of Appeals held that in Brantley v. State, 132 Ga. 573, 64 S.E. 676 (1909), aff'd, 217 U.S. 284 (1910), the Georgia Supreme Court had decided this question adversely to petitioner. The Court of Appeals then quoted from the Brantley case's syllabus:
"When a person has been indicted for murder and convicted of voluntary manslaughter, if he voluntarily seeks and obtains a new trial, he is subject to another trial generally for the offense charged in the indictment, and upon such trial he cannot successfully interpose a plea of former acquittal of the crime of murder, or former jeopardy in regard thereto." 118 Ga. App., at 208, 163 S. E. 2d, at 244.
Petitioner sought a rehearing, contending, as he contends here, that Brantley was no longer controlling. He relied on Green v. United States, <caseOfInterest>355 U.S. 184 </caseOfInterest>(1957), and *326 United States ex rel. Hetenyi v. Wilkins, 348 F.2d 844 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 913 (1966). His contention was rejected. In deciding that Brantley was still a binding precedent as to it, the Georgia Court of Appeals noted that the Georgia Supreme Court had transferred the case to it as involving the application of only "plain and unambiguous" constitutional provisions. The petitioner's motion was then denied. Thereafter the Georgia Supreme Court denied certiorari, and petitioner sought review in this Court. We granted the writ, 395 U.S. 975 (1969), and now reverse.

(1)
In United States v. Ball, 163 U.S. 662, 669 (1896), this Court observed: "The Constitution of the United States, in the Fifth Amendment, declares, 'nor shall any person be subject [for the same offense] to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.' The prohibition is not against being twice punished, but against being twice put in jeopardy . . . ." (Emphasis added.) The "twice put in jeopardy" language of the Constitution thus relates to a potential, i. e., the risk that an accused for a second time will be convicted of the "same offense" for which he was initially tried.
The circumstances that give rise to such a forbidden potential have been the subject of much discussion in this Court. In the Ball case, for example, the Court expressly rejected the view that the double jeopardy provision prevented a second trial when a conviction had been set aside. In so doing, it effectively formulated a concept of continuing jeopardy that has application where criminal proceedings against an accused have not run their full course. See Green v. United States, <caseOfInterest>355 U.S. 184</caseOfInterest>, 189 (1957).
The continuing jeopardy principle necessarily is applicable to this case. Petitioner sought and obtained the *327 reversal of his initial conviction for voluntary manslaughter by taking an appeal. Accordingly, no aspect of the bar on double jeopardy prevented his retrial for that crime. However, the first verdict, limited as it was to the lesser included offense, required that the retrial be limited to that lesser offense. Such a result flows inescapably from the Constitution's emphasis on a risk of conviction and the Constitution's explication in prior decisions of this Court.
An early case to deal with restrictions on retrials was Kepner v. United States, 195 U.S. 100 (1904), where the Court held that the Fifth Amendment's double jeopardy prohibition barred the Government from appealing an acquittal in a criminal prosecution,[2] over a dissent by Mr. Justice Holmes that argued that there was only one continuing jeopardy until the proceedings against the accused had been finally resolved. He held to the view that even if an accused was retried after the Government had obtained reversal of an acquittal, the second trial was part of the original proceeding.
Similar double jeopardy issues did not fully claim the Court's attention until the Court heard argument in Green v. United States, <caseOfInterest>355 U.S. 184 </caseOfInterest>(1957).[3] There *328 the petitioner had been tried and convicted of first-degree murder after an earlier guilty verdict on the lesser included offense of second-degree murder had been set aside on appeal. A majority of the Court rejected the argument that by appealing the conviction of second-degree murder the petitioner had "waived" his plea of former jeopardy with regard to the charge of first-degree murder.
The Court in the Green case reversed the first-degree murder conviction obtained at the retrial, holding that the petitioner's jeopardy for first-degree murder came to an end when the jury was discharged at the end of his first trial. This conclusion rested on two premises. First, the Court considered the first jury's verdict of guilty on the second-degree murder charge to be an "implicit acquittal" on the charge of first-degree murder. *329 Second, and more broadly, the Court reasoned that petitioner's jeopardy on the greater charge had ended when the first jury "was given a full opportunity to return a verdict" on that charge and instead reached a verdict on the lesser <caseOfInterest>charge. 355 U.S., at 191</caseOfInterest>. Under either of these premises, the holding in the Kepner case—that there could be no appeal from an acquittal because such a verdict ended an accused's jeopardy—was applicable.
The rationale of the Green holding applies here. The concept of continuing jeopardy implicit in the Ball case[4] would allow petitioner's retrial for voluntary manslaughter after his first conviction for that offense had been reversed. But, as the Kepner and Green cases illustrate, this Court has consistently refused to rule that jeopardy for an offense continues after an acquittal, whether that acquittal is express or implied by a conviction on a lesser included offense when the jury was given a full opportunity[5] to return a verdict on the greater charge. There is no relevant factual distinction between this case and Green v. United States. Although the petitioner was not convicted of the greater charge on retrial, whereas Green was, the risk of conviction on the greater charge was the same in both cases, 
-----------------------
e. Mr. Justice Holmes concurred in the result without stating his rationale. Kepner had been decided in the previous year, however, and his concurrence could have indicated that, for him, a waiver theory was too narrow—instead he considered that even an appeal by the Government was a continuing jeopardy, not a second jeopardy. Of the four dissenters, two, Justices McKenna and White, would have found a violation of the Constitution's double jeopardy provision.

Acceptance of either Trono's waiver theory or Mr. Justice Holmes' broad continuing jeopardy approach would indicate that Price could not complain of his retrial for the greater offense. But Trono has not survived unscathed to the present day. The "waiver theory" of four of the majority Justices in Trono was distinguished in Green as resting on "a statutory provision against double jeopardy pertaining to the Philippine Islands—a territory just recently conquered with long-established legal procedures that were alien to the common <caseOfInterest>law." 355 U.S., at 197</caseOfInterest>.
[4]  After Kepner and Green, the continuing jeopardy principle appears to rest on an amalgam of interests—e. g., fairness to society, lack of finality, and limited waiver, among others.
[5]  See People v. Jackson, 20 N.Y. 2d 440, 231 N.E.2d 722 (1967).
[6]  Brief for Plaintiff in Error, No. 692, O. T. 1909, p. 2.
[7]  Id., 5.
[8]  Ibid.
[9]  In Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U.S. 319 (1937), this Court refused to overturn a first-degree murder conviction obtained after the State had successfully appealed from a conviction of second-degree murder which was the product of a trial on first-degree murder charges. The Court ruled that federal double jeopardy standards were not applicable to the States.

Palko was overruled in Benton v. Maryland, 395 U.S. 784 (1969), where this Court determined that the double jeopardy prohibition of the Fifth Amendment should be applied to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment. Brantley and Palko were of the same genre, and Brantley necessarily shared Pa
