Case of interest: United States v. Ball (1896)
-----------------------
n the indictment, and upon such trial he cannot successfully interpose a plea of former acquittal of the crime of murder, or former jeopardy in regard thereto." 118 Ga. App., at 208, 163 S. E. 2d, at 244.
Petitioner sought a rehearing, contending, as he contends here, that Brantley was no longer controlling. He relied on Green v. United States, 355 U.S. 184 (1957), and *326 United States ex rel. Hetenyi v. Wilkins, 348 F.2d 844 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 913 (1966). His contention was rejected. In deciding that Brantley was still a binding precedent as to it, the Georgia Court of Appeals noted that the Georgia Supreme Court had transferred the case to it as involving the application of only "plain and unambiguous" constitutional provisions. The petitioner's motion was then denied. Thereafter the Georgia Supreme Court denied certiorari, and petitioner sought review in this Court. We granted the writ, 395 U.S. 975 (1969), and now reverse.

(1)
In United States v. Ball, <caseOfInterest>163 U.S. 662</caseOfInterest>, 669 (1896), this Court observed: "The Constitution of the United States, in the Fifth Amendment, declares, 'nor shall any person be subject [for the same offense] to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.' The prohibition is not against being twice punished, but against being twice put in jeopardy . . . ." (Emphasis added.) The "twice put in jeopardy" language of the Constitution thus relates to a potential, i. e., the risk that an accused for a second time will be convicted of the "same offense" for which he was initially tried.
The circumstances that give rise to such a forbidden potential have been the subject of much discussion in this Court. In the Ball case, for example, the Court expressly rejected the view that the double jeopardy provision prevented a second trial when a conviction had been set aside. In so doing, it effectively formulated a concept of continuing jeopardy that has application where criminal proceedings against an accused have not run their full course. Se
-----------------------
depend upon the construction of several Georgia statues and on the power of Georgia courts to fashion remedial orders. Accordingly, although we reverse petitioner's conviction, we also remand the case to enable the Georgia courts to resolve the issues pertaining to petitioner's retrial, if any such retrial is to be had.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
NOTES
[1]  Georgia's Constitution provides for direct review in the Georgia Supreme Court of, among others, "all cases that involve the construction of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or of the United States . . . ." Ga. Const., Art. VI, § 2, ¶ 4.
[2]  Kepner rested upon a portion of the Ball case that dealt with a criminal action that had been finally resolved. In Ball the Court had held that the Government could not re-indict an accused for an offense where a judgment of acquittal had been entered by a trial court with jurisdiction over the accused and the <caseOfInterest>cause. 163 U.S., at 669-670</caseOfInterest>. The Court relied partially on United States v. Sanges, 144 U.S. 310 (1892), where the Court had interpreted the Judiciary Act of 1891 to hold that the United States could not obtain review by a writ of error in a criminal case.
[3]  Shortly after Kepner the Court was faced with a factual situation somewhat akin to that presented by the instant case. In Trono v. United States, 199 U.S. 521 (1905), the defendants had been charged in a Philippine court with murder, and had been found guilty of the lesser offense of assault. On their appeal of the conviction the Philippine Supreme Court set aside the trial court's judgment, found them guilty of murder, and increased their sentences. This Court affirmed. Four Justices took the position that by appealing the assault conviction, the defendants had waived any double jeopardy claim respecting the murder charge. Mr. Justice Holmes concurred in the result without stating his rationale. Kepner had been decided in the previous year, however, and 
