Case of interest: White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co. (1922)
-----------------------
dered.
NOTES
[1]  The operation of the rule was described in The Sapphire, 18 Wall. 51, 56:

"It is undoubtedly the rule in admiralty that where both vessels are in fault the sums representing the damage sustained by each must be added together and the aggregate divided between the two. This is in effect deducting the lesser from the greater and dividing the remainder. . . . If one in fault has sustained no injury, it is liable for half the damages sustained by the other, though that other was also in fault."
Similarly, in The North Star, 106 U. S. 17, 22, the rule was thus stated:
"[A]ccording to the general maritime law, in cases of collision occurring by the fault of both parties, the entire damage to both ships is added together in one common mass and equally divided between them, and thereupon arises a liability of one party to pay to the other such sum as is necessary to equalize the burden."
See also, e. g., White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., <caseOfInterest>258 U. S. 341</caseOfInterest>; The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466.
It has long been settled that the divided damages rule applies not only in cases of collision between two vessels, but also in cases like this one where a vessel partly at fault is damaged in collision or grounding because of the mutual contributing fault of a nonvessel party. Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389 (barge struck pier because of mutual fault of barge and of pier owner); White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., supra (steamship ran aground in canal because of joint negligence of steamship and canal company). See also G. Gilmore & C. Black, The Law of Admiralty ยง 7-17, pp. 522-523 (2d ed. 1975).
[2]  The Government's petition for certiorari presented the single question whether the admiralty rule of equally divided damages should be replaced by the rule of damages in proportion to fault. The respondent did not file a cross-petition for certiorari, but it now argues that the Government was solely at fault and r
