Case of interest: The Ludvig Holberg (1895)
-----------------------
ely to "induce care and vigilance" than a comparative negligence rule that also penalizes wrongdoing, but in proportion to measure of fault. A rule that divides damages by degree of fault would seem better designed to induce care than the rule of equally divided damages, because it imposes the strongest deterrent upon the wrongful behavior that is most likely to harm others.
[12]  See, e. g., The City of New York, 147 U. S. 72, 85:

"Where fault on the part of one vessel is established by uncontradicted testimony, and such fault is, of itself, sufficient to account for the disaster, it is not enough for such vessel to raise a doubt with regard to the management of the other vessel. There is some presumption at least adverse to its claim, and any reasonable doubt with regard to the propriety of the conduct of such other vessel should be resolved in its favor."
See also The Victory & The Plymothian, 168 U. S. 410; The Umbria, 166 U. S. 404; The Oregon, 158 U. S. 186; The Ludvig Holberg, <caseOfInterest>157 U. S. 60</caseOfInterest>.
[13]  The rule of comparative negligence applicable to personal injury actions in our maritime law, see the Jones Act, 46 U. S. C. ยง 688; Death on the High Seas Act, 46 U. S. C. ยง 766, does not appear to discourage the negotiation of settlements in such litigation. It has been reported, for example, that of the marine personal injury cases involving a federal question that were terminated in fiscal year 1974, only 9.6% ever reached trial. 1974 Proceedings of the Judicial Conference of the United States and Annual Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, Table C4, p. 416.
[14]  The respondent also relies on the fact that the Senate has twice failed to ratify the Brussels Convention with its proportional fault rule. It is urged that this inaction indicates "grave doubt" in Congress that rejection of the divided damages rule will further justice. But even if we could find guidance in such "negative legislation," Moragne v. States Marine Lines, 398
