Case of interest: Borax Consolidated, Ltd. v. Los Angeles (1935)
-----------------------
t of the eastward migration of the Colorado. That court went on to hold that under state law the re-emergence of the land was an avulsive change, which did not divest the State of its title to the exposed land. This Court granted certiorari and reversed the Supreme Court of Arizona.
We phrased the critical inquiry in Bonelli in these words:
"The issue before us is not what rights the State has accorded private [land] owners in lands which the State holds as sovereign; but, rather, how far the State's sovereign right extends under the equal-footing doctrine and the Submerged Lands Act—whether the State retains title to the lands formerly beneath the stream of the Colorado River or whether that title is defeasible by the withdrawal of those waters." 414 U.S., at 319-320. (Emphasis added.)
We held that federal common law should govern in deciding whether a State retained title to lands which had re-emerged from the bed of a navigable stream, relying in part on Borax, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, <caseOfInterest>296 U.S. 10 </caseOfInterest>(1935). That case held that the extent and validity of a federal grant was a question to be resolved by federal law, and in Bonelli *370 we decided that the nature of the title conferred by the equal-footing doctrine set forth in Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212 (1845), should likewise be governed by federal common law. Under the equal-footing doctrine "the new States since admitted have the same rights, sovereignty and jurisdiction . . . as the original States possess within their respective borders." Mumford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall. 423, 436 (1867). Pollard's Lessee held that under the equal-footing doctrine new States, upon their admission to the Union acquire title to the lands underlying navigable waters within their boundaries.
We went on to discuss the nature of the sovereign's interest in the riverbed, which we found to lie in the protection of navigation, fisheries, and similar purposes. We held that under federal common law, as we construed it in that case, Arizona's soverei
-----------------------
n to the Union. Knight v. United States Land Assn., 142 U.S. 161 (1891). If a navigable stream is an interstate boundary, this Court, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction over suits between States, has necessarily developed a body of federal common law to determine the effect of a change in the bed of the stream on the boundary. See, e. g., Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U.S. 359 (1892); Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U.S. 158 (1918). Congress possesses by virtue of its commerce power a "navigational servitude" with respect to navigable waters.
"All navigable waters are under the control of the United States for the purpose of regulating and improving navigation, and although the title to the shore and submerged soil is in the various States and individual *376 owners under them, it is always subject to the servitude in respect of navigation created in favor of the Federal government by the Constitution." Gibson v. United States, 166 U.S. 269, 271-272 (1897).
In Borax, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, <caseOfInterest>296 U.S. 10 </caseOfInterest>(1935), this Court also found a basis to apply federal law, but its rationale does not dictate a different result in this case. In Borax, the city of Los Angeles brought suit to quiet title in certain land in Los Angeles Harbor. Los Angeles claimed the land under a grant from the State of California, whereas Borax, Ltd., claimed the land as a successor in interest to a federal patentee. The federal patent had purported to convey a specified quantity of land, 18.88 acres, according to a survey by the General Land Office. This Court recognized that if the patent purported to convey lands which were part of the tidelands, the patent would be invalid to that extent since the Federal Government has no power to convey lands which are rightfully the State's under the equal-footing doctrine. Id., at 17-19. The Court affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeals to remand for a new trial to allow the city to attempt to prove that some portion of the lands described in the federal patent was in 
-----------------------
s, 7 How. 283, *382 470 (1849) (Taney, C. J., dissenting); Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393, 405-411 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting); Smith v. Allwright, 321 U.S. 649 (1944). Even if we were to focus on the effect of our decision upon rules of substantive property law, our concern for unsettling titles would lead us to overrule Bonelli, rather than to retain it. See Minnesota Co. v. National Co., 3 Wall. 332, 334 (1866). Since one system of resolution of property disputes has been adhered to from 1845 until 1973, and the other only for the past three years, a return to the former would more closely conform to the expectations of property owners than would adherence to the latter. We are also persuaded that, in large part because of the positions taken in the briefs presented to the Court in Bonelli, the Bonelli decision was not a deliberate repudiation of all the cases which had gone before. We there proceeded on the view, which we now think to have been mistaken, that <caseOfInterest>Borax, supra</caseOfInterest>, should be read so expansively as to in effect overrule sub silentio the line of cases following Pollard's Lessee.
For all of these reasons, we have now decided that Bonelli's application of federal common law to cases such as this must be overruled.
The judgment under review is vacated, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of Oregon for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, dissenting.
I would not overrule Bonelli Cattle Co. v. Arizona, 414 U.S. 313 (1973), and would therefore affirm the judgment of the Oregon Supreme Court.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE WHITE joins, dissenting.
The Court today overrules a three-year-old decision, Bonelli Cattle Co. v. Arizona, 414 U.S. 313 (1973), in which *383 seven of the eight participating Justices joined. In addition, as the Court is certain to announce when the occasion arises, today's holding also overrules Hughes v. Washington, 389 U.S. 290 (1967), a nine-year-old d
-----------------------
 added). Similarly, in Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U.S. 1 (1894),[6] the Court said:
"The rule, everywhere admitted, that where the land encroaches upon the water by gradual and imperceptible degrees, the accretion or alluvion belongs to the owner of the land, is equally applicable to lands bounding on tide waters or on fresh waters, and to the King or the State as to private persons; and is independent of the law governing the title in the soil covered by the water." Id., at 35 (emphasis added).
Thus, the right to such additions[7] was part of the title which passed with the federal grant, cf. 3 American Law of Property § 15.27, p. 859 (A. J. Casner ed. 1952), and was protected by federal law. By holding that state law now governs the impact of changes in the course of the bordering water on a federal riparian grant, the Court denies that "a question which concerns the validity and effect of an act done by the United States" is "necessarily a federal question." Borax, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, <caseOfInterest>296 U.S. 10</caseOfInterest>, 22 (1935). As far as federal law is concerned, a federal riparian grant *388 is now understood to have incorporated a fixed rather than ambulatory boundary. Ante, at 376. The rule of New Orleans v. United States, supra, and County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, supra, is discarded along with Bonelli and Hughes.
The cases the Court concludes compel this dramatic shift do not even support it. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498 (1839),[8] was an action of ejectment brought against the commander of a United States military post to recover part of the post. The plaintiff claimed under a state registration certificate. As the majority notes, the Court rejected that argument with the following language:
"We hold the true principle to be this, that whenever the question in any Court, state or federal, is, whether a title to land which had once been the property of the United States has passed, that question must be resolved by the laws of the United States; but that whenever, according to those law
-----------------------
oner took the same position. Brief for Petitioners 31-34 in Bonelli Cattle Co. v. Arizona, supra. The Bonelli Court did not reach this contention, noting that there was some doubt that the land in question was riparian at the time of the federal patent. 414 U.S., at 321 n. 11. In its eagerness to do away with Bonelli's result as well as its approach, however, today's opinion explicitly concludes that had Bonelli relied on the theory advocated by the petitioner there and the Solicitor General, it would now be rejected. Ante, at 371-372, 378-381.

Nevertheless, the majority suggests that Hughes might still control oceanfront property. Ante, at 377 n. 6. It is difficult to take seriously the suggestion that the national interest in international relations justifies applying a different rule to oceanfront land grants than to other grants by the Federal Government. It is clear that the States have complete title to the lands below the line of mean high tide. See Borax, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, <caseOfInterest>296 U.S. 10 </caseOfInterest>(1935); 43 U.S. C. §§ 1301 (a) (2), 1311. These lands, of course, are the only place where the waters " `lap both the lands of the State and the boundaries of the international sea.' " Ante, at 377 n. 6, quoting Hughes v. Washington, 389 U. S., at 293. There are no international relations implications in the ownership of land above the line of mean high tide. See Note, The Federal Rule of Accretion and California Coastal Protection, 48 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1457, 1472 (1975).
[2]  The cross-petitions for certiorari did not raise the question whether federal law governed the outcome; they were concerned only with whether the Oregon courts properly interpreted the governing federal common law.

The State's petition for certiorari in No. 76-567 stated the question presented as:
"In a typical situation of a navigable river flowing through two channels, where the smaller of the two channels after 20 years of erosive flooding `suddenly' becomes the main channel, and the other channel eventually be
