Case of interest: Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages (1976)
-----------------------
r stevedoring activities.

III

The Import-Export Clause
Having decided that the Commerce Clause does not per se invalidate the application of the Washington tax to stevedoring, we must face the question whether the tax contravenes the Import-Export Clause. Although the parties dispute the meaning of the prohibition of "Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports," they agree that it differs from the ban the Commerce Clause erects against burdens and taxation on interstate commerce. Brief for Petitioner 32-33; Brief for Respondents 9-10; Tr. of Oral Arg. 13, 22. The Court has noted before that the Import-Export Clause states an absolute ban, whereas the Commerce Clause merely grants power to Congress. Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U.S. 69, 75 (1946). On the other hand, the Commerce Clause touches all state taxation and regulation of interstate and foreign commerce, whereas the Import-Export Clause bans only "Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports." Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages, <caseOfInterest>423 U.S. 276</caseOfInterest>, 279, 290-294 (1976). The resolution of the Commerce Clause issue, therefore, does not dispose of the Import-Export Clause question.

A
In Michelin the Court upheld the application of a general ad valorem property tax to imported tires and tubes. The Court surveyed the history and purposes of the Import-Export Clause to determine, for the first time, which taxes fell within the absolute ban on "Imposts or Duties." Id., at 283-286. *752 Previous cases had assumed that all taxes on imports and exports and on the importing and exporting processes were banned by the Clause. See, e. g., Department of Revenue v. James B. Beam Distilling Co., 377 U.S. 341, 343 (1964); Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U. S., at 76; Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Co., 330 U. S., at 445 (Douglas, J., dissenting in part); Anglo-Chilean Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U.S. 218, 226-227 (1933); License Cases, 5 How. 504, 575-576 (1847) (opinion of Taney, C. J.). Before Michelin, the primary consideration was w
-----------------------
 419 (1827); see, e. g., Department of Revenue v. James B. Beam Distilling Co.; Anglo-Chilean Corp. v. Alabama; Low v. Austin, 13 Wall. 29 (1872), overruled in Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages. So long as the goods retained their status as imports by remaining in their import packages, they enjoyed immunity from state taxation. With respect to exports, the dispositive question was whether the goods had entered the "export stream," the final, continuous journey out of the country. Kosydar v. National Cash Register Co., 417 U.S. 62, 70-71 (1974); Empresa Siderurgica v. County of Merced, 337 U.S. 154, 157 (1949); A. G. Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U.S. 66, 69 (1923); Coe v. Errol, 116 U.S. 517, 526, 527 (1886). As soon as the journey began, tax immunity attached.
Michelin initiated a different approach to Import-Export Clause cases. It ignored the simple question whether the tires and tubes were imports. Instead, it analyzed the nature of the tax to determine whether it was an "Impost or <caseOfInterest>Duty." 423 U.S., at 279</caseOfInterest>, 290-294. Specifically, the analysis examined whether the exaction offended any of the three policy considerations leading to the presence of the Clause:
"The Framers of the Constitution thus sought to alleviate three main concerns . . . : the Federal Government *753 must speak with one voice when regulating commercial relations with foreign governments, and tariffs, which might affect foreign relations, could not be implemented by the States consistently with that exclusive power; import revenues were to be the major source of revenue of the Federal Government and should not be diverted to the States; and harmony among the States might be disturbed unless seaboard States, with their crucial ports of entry, were prohibited from levying taxes on citizens of other States by taxing goods merely flowing through their ports to the other States not situated as favorably geographically." Id., at 285-286 (footnotes omitted).
The ad valorem property tax there at issue offended none of these po
-----------------------
mported goods themselves.
Third, the desire to prevent interstate rivalry and friction does not vary significantly from the primary purpose of the Commerce Clause. See P. Hartman, State Taxation of Interstate Commerce 2-3 (1953).[19] The third Import-Export Clause policy, therefore, is vindicated if the tax falls upon a *755 taxpayer with reasonable nexus to the State, is properly apportioned, does not discriminate, and relates reasonably to services provided by the State. As has been explained in Part II-C, supra, the record in this case, as presently developed, reveals the presence of all these factors.
Under the analysis of Michelin, then, the application of the Washington business and occupation tax to stevedoring violates no Import-Export Clause policy and therefore should not qualify as an "Impost or Duty" subject to the absolute ban of the Clause.

B
The Court in Michelin qualified its holding with the observation that Georgia had applied the property tax to goods "no longer in <caseOfInterest>transit." 423 U.S., at 302</caseOfInterest>.[20] Because the goods were no longer in transit, however, the Court did not have to face the question whether a tax relating to goods in transit would be an "Impost or Duty" even if it offended none of the policies behind the Clause. Inasmuch as we now face this inquiry, we note two distinctions between this case and Michelin. First, the activity taxed here occurs while imports and exports are in transit. Second, however, the tax does not fall on the goods themselves. The levy reaches only the business of loading and unloading ships or, in other words, the business of transporting cargo within the State of Washington. Despite the existence of the first distinction, the presence of the second leads to the conclusion that the Washington tax is not a prohibited "Impost or Duty" when it violates none of the policies.
In Canton R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U.S. 511 (1951), the Court upheld a gross-receipts tax on a steam railroad operating *756 exclusively within the Port of Baltimore. The railro
-----------------------
espondents identify no such variation in policy, their transit-fee argument must be rejected.

E
The Washington business and occupation tax, as applied to stevedoring, reaches services provided wholly within the State of Washington to imports, exports, and other goods. The application violates none of the constitutional policies identified in Michelin. It is, therefore, not among the "Imposts or Duties" within the prohibition of the Import-Export Clause.

IV
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.[27]
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, concurring in part and concurring in the result.
I join the opinion of the Court with the exception of Part III-B. As that section of the Court's opinion appears to *762 resurrect the discarded "direct-indirect" test, I cannot join it.
In Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages, <caseOfInterest>423 U.S. 276 </caseOfInterest>(1976), this Court abandoned the traditional, formalistic methods of determining the validity of state levies under the Import-Export Clause and applied a functional analysis based on the exaction's relationship to the three policies that underlie the Clause: (i) preservation of uniform federal regulation of foreign relations; (ii) protection of federal revenue derived from imports; and (iii) maintenance of harmony among the inland States and the seaboard States. The nondiscriminatory ad valorem property tax in Michelin was held not to violate any of those policies, but the Court suggested that even a nondiscriminatory tax on goods merely in transit through the State might run afoul of the Import-Export Clause.
The question the Court addresses today in Part III-B is whether the business tax at issue here is such a tax upon goods in transit. The Court gives a negative answer, apparently for two reasons. The first is that Canton R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U.S. 511 (1951), indicates that this i
-----------------------
nferred by the State:
"There is no reason why local taxpayers should subsidize the services used by the importer; ultimate consumers should pay for such services as police and fire protection accorded the goods just as much as they should pay transportation costs associated with those goods. An evil to be prevented by the Import-Export Clause was the levying of taxes which could only be imposed because of the peculiar geographical situation of certain States that enabled them to single out goods destined for other States. In effect, the Clause was fashioned to prevent the imposition of exactions which were no more than transit fees on the privilege of moving through a State. [The tax at issue] obviously stands on a different footing, and to the extent there is any conflict whatsoever with this purpose of the Clause, it may be secured merely by prohibiting the assessment of even nondiscriminatory property taxes on goods which are merely in transit through the State when *764 the tax is <caseOfInterest>assessed." 423 U.S., at 289-290</caseOfInterest>. (Footnotes omitted.)
In questioning the validity of "transit fees," the Michelin Court was concerned with exactions that bore no relation to services and benefits conferred by the State. Thus, the transit-fee inquiry cannot be answered by determining whether or not the tax relates to the value of the goods; instead, it must be answered by inquiring whether the State is simply making the imported goods pay their own way, as opposed to exacting a fee merely for "the privilege of moving through a State." Ibid.
The Court already has answered that question in this case. In Part II-C, the Court observes that "nothing in the record suggests that the tax is not fairly related to services and protection provided by the State." Ante, at 750-751. Since the stevedoring companies undoubtedly avail themselves of police and fire protection, as well as other benefits Washington offers its local businesses, this statement cannot be questioned. For that reason, I agree with the Court's conclusion that
-----------------------
gument.
[12]  In its oral decision the Superior Court noted its doubt about the continued validity of the Stevedoring Cases:

"It would seem to the Court . . . that there certainly is a swing away from the Puget Sound and Carter and Weekes cases . . . ." App. 8. "It sticks in this Court's mind, however, that there has to be a reason, of which is beyond the ability of this Court to comprehend, that everyone has shied from the stevedoring cases, and many minds obviously more brilliant than mine have not been able to overturn those cases directly in thirty-eight years . . . ." Id., at 11. "Under those circumstances the Court does hold that the Puget Sound and Carter and Weekes cases are the law of the land, as exemplified by those decisions; that they have not been reversed by implication, nor has there been an invitation to anyone to reverse those cases." Id., at 13-14.
[13]  The court stated, 88 Wash. 2d, at 318, 559 P.2d, at 998, that petitioner had cited Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages, <caseOfInterest>423 U.S. 276 </caseOfInterest>(1976); Colonial Pipeline Co. v. Traigle, 421 U.S. 100 (1975); Canton R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U.S. 511 (1951); Interstate Pipe Line Co. v. Stone, 337 U.S. 662 (1949); and Central Greyhound Lines, Inc. v. Mealey, 334 U.S. 653 (1948).
[14]  They cited, among others, four particular cases. The first was Department of Treasury v. Wood Preserving Corp., 313 U.S. 62 (1941). In that case the Court sustained an Indiana tax on the gross receipts of a foreign corporation from purchase and resale of timber in Indiana. The transaction was considered local even though the timber was to be transported, after the resale, to Ohio for creosote treatment by the foreign corporation. The second case was McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U.S. 33 (1940). There a Pennsylvania corporation sold coal to New York City consumers through a city sales office. Even though the coal was shipped from Pennsylvania, the Court permitted the city to tax the sale because the tax was conditioned on local activity, that is, t
-----------------------
issue. 340 U.S., at 515. It was also reserved in the companion case of Western Maryland R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U.S. 520, 522 (1951).
[23]  We do not reach the question of the applicability of the Michelin approach when a State directly taxes imports or exports in transit.

Our Brother POWELL, as his concurring opinion indicates, obviously would prefer to reach the issue today, even though the facts of the present case, as he agrees, do not present a case of a tax on goods in transit. As in Michelin, decided less than three years ago, we prefer to defer decision until a case with pertinent facts is presented. At that time, with full argument, the issue with all its ramifications may be decided.
[24]  See Abramson, State Taxation of Exports: The Stream of Constitutionality, 54 N. C. L. Rev. 59 (1975).
[25]  "No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State."
[26]  But see 1 W. Crosskey, Politics and the Constitution in the History of the United States 296-297 (1953), cited <caseOfInterest>in 423 U.S., at 290-291</caseOfInterest>, in which the author argues that the concept of "Duties" encompassed excises. He does not explain, however, why Art. I, ยง 8, cl. 1, enumerated "Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises" if the Framers intended duties to include excises.
[27]  See generally Hellerstein, State Taxation and the Supreme Court: Toward a More Unified Approach to Constitutional Adjudication?, 75 Mich. L. Rev. 1426 (1977).

