Case of interest: City of Altus, Oklahoma v. Carr (1966)
-----------------------
 that the State's water resources were inadequate for present or future use. The State "finds itself in possession of what all admit to be a great public good, and what it has it may keep and give no one a reason for its will." Id., at 357.
Having disposed of the just compensation claim, Justice Holmes turned very briefly to the other constitutional challenges. *947 In one paragraph, he rejected the Contract Clause claim. In the remaining paragraph of the opinion, he rejected all the other defenses. His treatment of the Commerce Clause challenge consists of three sentences: "A man cannot acquire a right to property by his desire to use it in commerce among the States. Neither can he enlarge his otherwise limited and qualified right to the same end. The case is covered in this respect by Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U.S. 519 [(1896)]." Ibid.
While appellee relies upon Hudson County, appellants rest on our summary affirmance of a three-judge District Court judgment in City of Altus v. Carr, <caseOfInterest>255 F. Supp. 828 </caseOfInterest>(WD Tex.), summarily aff'd, 385 U.S. 35 (1966). The city of Altus is located near the southern border of Oklahoma. Large population increases rendered inadequate its source of municipal water. It consequently obtained from the owners of land in an adjoining Texas county the contractual right to pump the ground water underlying that land and to transport it across the border. The Texas Legislature thereafter enacted a statute that forbade the interstate exportation of ground water without the approval of that body.[7] The city filed suit in Federal District Court, claiming that the statute violated the Commerce Clause.
The city relied upon West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U.S. 229 (1911), which invalidated an Oklahoma statute that prevented the interstate transfer of natural gas produced within the State,[8] and Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U.S. 553 (1923), which invalidated a West Virginia statute *948 that accorded a preference to the citizens of that State in the purchase of
-----------------------
hen had little difficulty in concluding that the statute imposed an impermissible burden on interstate commerce.[11]
In summarily affirming the District Court in City of Altus, we did not necessarily adopt the court's reasoning. Our affirmance indicates only our agreement with the result reached by the District Court. Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U.S. 490, 499 (1981). That result is not necessarily inconsistent with the Nebraska Supreme Court's holding in this case. For Texas law differs significantly from Nebraska law regarding the rights of a surface owner to ground water that he has withdrawn. According to the District Court in City of Altus, the "rule in Texas was that an owner of land could use all of the percolating water he could capture from the wells on his land for whatever beneficial purposes he needed it, on or off the land, and could likewise sell it to others for use on or off the land and outside the basin where produced, just as he could sell any other species of <caseOfInterest>property." 255 F. Supp., at 833</caseOfInterest>, n. 8. Since ground water, once withdrawn, may be freely bought and sold in States that follow this rule, in those States ground water is appropriately regarded *950 as an article of commerce. In Nebraska the surface owner has no comparable interest in ground water. As explained by the Nebraska Supreme Court, "`the owner of land is entitled to appropriate subterranean waters found under his land, but he cannot extract and appropriate them in excess of a reasonable and beneficial use upon the land which he owns, especially if such use is injurious to others who have substantial rights to the waters, and if the natural underground supply is insufficient for all owners, each is entitled to a reasonable proportion of the whole.'" 208 Neb., at 705, 305 N. W. 2d, at 617 (quoting Olson v. City of Wahoo, 124 Neb. 802, 811, 248 N.W. 304, 308 (1933)).
City of Altus, however, is inconsistent with Hudson County. For in the latter case the Court found Geer v. Connecticut, supra, to be controlling 
-----------------------
and other considerations that, as against the rights of riparian owners merely as such, the State was warranted in prohibiting the acquisition of the title to water on a larger scale." Id., at 354.
[6]  "The problems of irrigation have no place here. Leaving them on one side, it appears to us that few public interests are more obvious, indisputable and independent of particular theory than the interest of the public of a State to maintain the rivers that are wholly within it substantially undiminished, except by such drafts upon them as the guardian of the public welfare may permit for the purpose of turning them to a more perfect use." Id., at 356.
[7]  The District Court quoted the statute: "`No one shall withdraw water from any underground source in this State for use in any other state by drilling a well in Texas and transporting the water outside the boundaries of the State unless the same be specifically authorized by an Act of the Texas Legislature and thereafter as approved by <caseOfInterest>it.'" 255 F. Supp., at 830</caseOfInterest>.
[8]  Justice Holmes, the author of the Court's opinion in Hudson County, noted his dissent. See 221 U.S., at 262.
[9]  Justice Holmes dissented, expressing the view that the Court's decision was inconsistent with Hudson County. See 262 U.S., at 603.
[10]  The District Court <caseOfInterest>opinion, 255 F. Supp., at 839</caseOfInterest>, included these quotations from the two cases:

"The statute of Oklahoma recognizes [natural gas] to be a subject of intrastate commerce, but seeks to prohibit it from being the subject of interstate commerce, and this is the purpose of its conservation. In other words, the purpose of its conservation is in a sense commercial—the business welfare of the State, as coal might be, or timber. Both of these products might be limited in amount, and the same consideration of the public welfare which would confine gas to the use of the inhabitants of a State would confine them to the inhabitants of the State. If the States have such power a singular situation might result. Pennsylvania might keep its coal, the Northwest its timber, the mining States their minerals. And why may not the products of the field be brought within the principle?" West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S., at 255.
"Another consideration advanced to the same end is that natural gas is a natural product of the State an
-----------------------
Considering the statute in question only with regard to whether it regulates the transportation and use of water after it has been withdrawn from a well and becomes personal property, such statute constitutes an unreasonable burden upon and interference with interstate commerce. Moreover, on the facts of this case it appear[s] to us that [the Texas statute] does not have for its purpose, nor does it operate to conserve water resources of the State of Texas except in the sense that it does so for her own benefit to the detriment of her sister States as in the case of West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co. In the name of conservation, the statute seeks to prohibit interstate shipments of water while indulging in the substantial discrimination of permitting the unrestricted intrastate production and transportation of water between points within the State, no matter how distant; for example, from Wilbarger County to El Paso County, Texas. Obviously, the statute had little relation to the cause of <caseOfInterest>conservation." 255 F. Supp., at 839-840</caseOfInterest>.
[12]  "This statute, however, seeks to prohibit the production of underground water for the purpose of transporting same in interstate commerce, and has the effect of prohibiting the interstate transportation of such water after it has become personal property. Whether a statute by its phraseology prohibits the interstate transportation of an article of commerce after it has become the personal property of someone as in the Pennsylvania and West cases, or prohibits the withdrawal of such substance where the intent is to transport such in interstate commerce, the result upon interstate commerce is the same. In both situations, the purpose and intent of the statute and the end result thereof is to prohibit the interstate transportation of an article of commerce." Id., at 840.
[13]  In California v. United States, 438 U.S. 645, 648 (1978), we explained some of the circumstances that support a general policy of local water management under differing legal systems:

"The very vastness of 
-----------------------
c Tea Co. v. Cottrell, 424 U.S. 366, 379-381 (1976).
[19]  "The history of the relationship between the Federal Government and the States in the reclamation of the arid lands of the Western States is both long and involved, but through it runs the consistent thread of purposeful and continued deference to state water law by Congress." California v. United States, 438 U. S., at 653.
[20]  Similarly, this Court has encouraged States to resolve their water disputes through interstate compacts rather than by equitable apportionment adjudication. See Colorado v. Kansas, 320 U.S. 383, 392 (1943).
[21]  See, e. g., Prudential Ins. Co. v. Benjamin, 328 U.S. 408 (1946) (McCarran-Ferguson Act, 59 Stat. 33); International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945) (§ 1606(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, 53 Stat. 1391); Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U.S. 431 (1936) (Hawes-Cooper Act, 45 Stat. 1084); In re Rahrer, 140 U.S. 545 (1891) (Wilson Act, 26 Stat. 313).
[1]  Similarly, in City of Altus v. Carr, <caseOfInterest>255 F. Supp. 828 </caseOfInterest>(WD Tex.), summarily aff'd, 385 U.S. 35 (1966), Texas placed no restrictions upon the use or the intrastate sale of ground water. The "rule in Texas was that an owner of land could use all of the percolating water he could capture from the wells on his land for whatever beneficial purposes he needed it, on or off the land, and could likewise sell it to others for use on or off the land and outside the basin where produced, just as he could sell any other species of <caseOfInterest>property." 255 F. Supp., at 833</caseOfInterest>, n. 8. Texas' absolute ownership rule is an anomaly among the Western States. See 5 R. Clark, Waters and Water Rights § 441 (1972 and 1978 Supp.). In Nebraska, as in most of the Western States, ground water is not treated as "any other species of property."
[2]  Unlike several other Western States, Nebraska does not entirely forbid ground water extracted in Nebraska to be used in other States. See Brief for City of El Paso as Amicus Curiae 2, n. 3. As noted by the Court, Nebraska merely places conditions on such a use of the State's ground water. A permit must be obtained from the Nebraska Department of Water Resources. If the requested withdrawal of ground water is determined to be "reasonable, ... not contrary to the conservation and use of ground water, and ... not otherwise detrimental to the public welfare," a permit will be issued so long as the "state in which the water is to be used grants reciprocal rights to withdraw and transport ground water from that state for use in the 
