Case of interest: Geer v. Connecticut (1896)
-----------------------
. Putting aside the "problems of irrigation," the State's interest in preserving its waters was well within its police power.[6] That interest was not dependent on any demonstration that the State's water resources were inadequate for present or future use. The State "finds itself in possession of what all admit to be a great public good, and what it has it may keep and give no one a reason for its will." Id., at 357.
Having disposed of the just compensation claim, Justice Holmes turned very briefly to the other constitutional challenges. *947 In one paragraph, he rejected the Contract Clause claim. In the remaining paragraph of the opinion, he rejected all the other defenses. His treatment of the Commerce Clause challenge consists of three sentences: "A man cannot acquire a right to property by his desire to use it in commerce among the States. Neither can he enlarge his otherwise limited and qualified right to the same end. The case is covered in this respect by Geer v. Connecticut, <caseOfInterest>161 U.S. 519 </caseOfInterest>[(1896)]." Ibid.
While appellee relies upon Hudson County, appellants rest on our summary affirmance of a three-judge District Court judgment in City of Altus v. Carr, 255 F. Supp. 828 (WD Tex.), summarily aff'd, 385 U.S. 35 (1966). The city of Altus is located near the southern border of Oklahoma. Large population increases rendered inadequate its source of municipal water. It consequently obtained from the owners of land in an adjoining Texas county the contractual right to pump the ground water underlying that land and to transport it across the border. The Texas Legislature thereafter enacted a statute that forbade the interstate exportation of ground water without the approval of that body.[7] The city filed suit in Federal District Court, claiming that the statute violated the Commerce Clause.
The city relied upon West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U.S. 229 (1911), which invalidated an Oklahoma statute that prevented the interstate transfer of natural gas produced within the State,[8] and Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U.S. 553 (1923), which invalidated a West Virginia statute *948 that accorded a preference to the citizens of that State in the purchase of natural gas produced therein.[9] The Texas Attorney General defended the statute on two grounds. First, he asserted that its purpose was to conserve and protect the State's water resources by regulating the withdrawal of ground water. The District Court rejected that defense because similar conservation claims had met defeat in West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., supra, and Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, supra.[10] Second, the State argued that the statute regulated ground water and that ground water is not an article of commerce, citing Geer v. Connecticut, <caseOfInterest>161 U.S. 519 </caseOfInterest>(1896), and Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U.S. 349 (1908). The court rejected this argument since the statute directly regulated the interstate transportation of *949 water that had been pumped from the ground, and under Texas law such water was an article of commerce. The court then had little difficulty in concluding that the statute imposed an impermissible burden on interstate commerce.[11]
In summarily affirming the District Court in City of Altus, we did not necessarily adopt the court's reasoning. Our affirmance indicates only our agreement with the result reached by the District Court. Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U.S. 490, 499 (1981). That result is not necessarily inconsistent with the Nebraska Supreme Court's holding in this case. For Texas law differs significantly from Nebraska law regarding the rights of a surface owner to ground water that he has withdrawn. According to the District Court in City of Altus, the "rule in Texas was that an owner of land cou
-----------------------
ies of property." 255 F. Supp., at 833, n. 8. Since ground water, once withdrawn, may be freely bought and sold in States that follow this rule, in those States ground water is appropriately regarded *950 as an article of commerce. In Nebraska the surface owner has no comparable interest in ground water. As explained by the Nebraska Supreme Court, "`the owner of land is entitled to appropriate subterranean waters found under his land, but he cannot extract and appropriate them in excess of a reasonable and beneficial use upon the land which he owns, especially if such use is injurious to others who have substantial rights to the waters, and if the natural underground supply is insufficient for all owners, each is entitled to a reasonable proportion of the whole.'" 208 Neb., at 705, 305 N. W. 2d, at 617 (quoting Olson v. City of Wahoo, 124 Neb. 802, 811, 248 N.W. 304, 308 (1933)).
City of Altus, however, is inconsistent with Hudson County. For in the latter case the Court found Geer v. <caseOfInterest>Connecticut, supra</caseOfInterest>, to be controlling on the Commerce Clause issue. Geer, which sustained a Connecticut ban on the interstate transportation of game birds captured in that State, was premised on the theory that the State owned its wild animals and therefore was free to qualify any ownership interest it might recognize in the persons who capture them. One such restriction is a prohibition against interstate transfer of the captured animals. This theory of public ownership was advanced as a defense in City of Altus. The State argued that it owned all subterranean water and therefore could recognize ownership in the surface owner who withdraws the water, but restrict that ownership to use of the water within the State. That theory, upon which the Commerce Clause issue in Hudson County was decided, was rejected by the District Court in City of Altus.[12] In expressly *951 overruling Geer three years ago, this Court traced the demise of the public ownership theory and definitively recast it as "`but a fictio
