Case of interest: Ex Parte Bain (1887)
-----------------------
instead argued that Miller had been prejudiced in his right to be free from a trial for any offense other than that alleged in the grand jury's indictment. 728 F.2d, at 1270. It reasoned that a grand jury's willingness to indict an individual for participation in a broad criminal plan does not establish that the same grand jury would have indicted the individual for participating in a substantially narrower, even if wholly included, criminal plan. 715 F.2d, at 1362-1363. Relying on the Fifth Amendment's grand jury guarantee, the Court of Appeals concluded that a conviction could not stand where the trial proof corresponded to a fraudulent scheme much narrower than, though included within, the scheme that the grand jury had alleged. The Court of Appeals cited two prior decisions of this Court that emphasized the right of an accused to be tried only on charges that had in fact been passed on by a grand jury. Ibid. (citing Stirone v. United States, 361 U.S. 212 (1960), and Ex parte Bain, <caseOfInterest>121 U.S. 1 </caseOfInterest>(1887)). Cf. United States v. Mastelotto, 717 F.2d 1238, 1248-1250 (CA9 1983) (similarly relying on Stirone and Bain).

II
The Government correctly argues that the Court of Appeals' result conflicts with a number of this Court's prior *136 decisions interpreting the Fifth Amendment's Grand Jury Clause. The Court has long recognized that an indictment may charge numerous offenses or the commission of any one offense in several ways. As long as the crime and the elements of the offense that sustain the conviction are fully and clearly set out in the indictment, the right to a grand jury is not normally violated by the fact that the indictment alleges more crimes or other means of committing the same crime. See, e. g., Ford v. United States, 273 U.S. 593 (1927); Salinger v. United States, 272 U.S. 542 (1926). See also Berger v. United States, supra; Hall v. United States, 168 U.S. 632, 638-640 (1898). Indeed, a number of longstanding doctrines of criminal procedure are premised on the not
-----------------------
tion between pleading and proof, that variation [had in Stirone] destroyed the defendant's substantial right to be tried only on charges presented in an indictment returned by a grand jury. Deprivation of such a basic right is far too serious to be treated as nothing more than a variance and then dismissed as harmless error." 361 U.S., at 217 (citations omitted). Accord, Russell v. United States, 369 U. S., at 770-771 (following Stirone).
Miller has shown no deprivation of his "substantial right to be tried only on charges presented in an indictment returned by a grand jury." 361 U.S., at 217. In contrast to Stirone, Miller was tried on an indictment that clearly set out the offense for which he was ultimately convicted. His complaint is not that the indictment failed to charge the offense for which he was convicted, but that the indictment charged more than was necessary.

IV
The one decision of this Court that does offer some support to the Court of Appeals' result is Ex parte Bain, <caseOfInterest>121 U.S. 1 </caseOfInterest>(1887), for there the Court treated as an unconstitutional "amendment" the deletion from an indictment of allegations that would not have been necessary to prove the offense. This deletion, in the Court's view, did constitute a compromise of the defendant's right to be tried only on a grand jury's indictment.
Bain was a bank cashier who had been indicted for including false statements in a report required to be made to the Comptroller of the Currency. The indictment charged that when Bain filed these required reports, he "did then and there well know and believe the said report and statement to be false to the extent and in the mode and manner above set forth; and [he] made said false statement and report in manner and form as above set forth with intent to deceive the Comptroller of the Currency and the agent appointed to examine the affairs of said [banking] association . . . ." Id., at 4. The relevant statute made it a criminal offense to file *141 " `any false entry in any book, report, or statement . . . with intent . . . to deceive . . . any agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such association . . . .' " Id., at 3 (quoting Rev. Stat. ยง 5209). Thus under the terms of the statute, there was no need to charge Bain with intending to deceive "the Comptroller of the Currency." An intent to deceive the agent appointed to examine the reports was all that was necessary to prove the offense.
Under later cases, such as Ford and Salinger, the presence of such surplusage in the indictment would not invalidate a conviction as long as the necessary intent was also alleged and proved. But in Bain the trial court sustained Bain's demurrer to the indictment. After sustaining the demurrer, however, the court granted a motion by the Government "that the indictment be amended by striking out the words `the Comptroller of the Currency and.'<caseOfInterest>" 121 U.S., at 5</caseOfInterest>. Bain was then required to plead to the amended indictment, and was tried and convicted under that indictment. Ibid. This Court granted a writ of habeas corpus on the ground that Bain's Fifth Amendment right to stand trial only on an indictment returned by a grand jury had been violated. The opinion reasoned that a court could not, consistent with the Fifth Amendment, assume that the narrower indictment would have been returned by the grand jury that returned the broader one.[6]
*142 Bain may best be understood in terms of two distinct propositions. Most generally, Bain stands for the proposition that a conviction cannot stand if based on an offense that is different from that alleged in the grand jury's indictment. But more specifically, Bain can support the proposition that the striking out of parts of an indictment invalidates the whole of the indictment, for a court cannot speculate as to whether the grand jury had meant for any remaining offense to stand independently, even if th
-----------------------
rop from an indictment those allegations that are unnecessary to an offense that is clearly contained within it, that case has simply not survived. To avoid further confusion, we now explicitly reject that proposition.
Rejecting this aspect of Bain is hardly a radical step, however, given that in the years since Bain this Court has largely ignored this element of the case. Moreover, in rejecting this proposition's continued validity, we do not limit Bain's more general proposition concerning the impermissibility of actual additions to the offenses alleged in an indictment, a proposition we have repeatedly reaffirmed. See Part III, supra; text accompanying n. 7, supra. That our holding today is fully consistent with prior legal understanding is apparent from an examination of the state of the law, as seen by Chief Justice Stone, more than 40 years ago:
"An indictment is amended when it is so altered as to charge a different offense from that found by the grand *145 jury. Ex parte Bain, <caseOfInterest>121 U.S. 1</caseOfInterest>. But here there was no alteration of the indictment, Salinger v. United States, 272 U.S. 542, 549, nor did the court's action, in effect, add anything to it by submitting to the jury matters which it did not charge. United States v. Norris, 281 U.S. 619, 622. In Salinger v. United States, supra, 548-9, we explicitly held that where an indictment charges several offenses, or the commission of one offense in several ways, the withdrawal from the jury's consideration of one offense or one alleged method of committing it does not constitute a forbidden amendment of the indictment. See also Goto v. Lane, 265 U.S. 393, 402-3; Ford v. United States, 273 U.S. 593, 602. Were the rule otherwise the common practice of withdrawing from the jury's consideration one count of an indictment while submitting others for its verdict, sustained in Dealy v. United States, 152 U.S. 539, 542, would be a fatal error." United States v. Ballard, 322 U. S., at 90-91 (dissenting).

V
In light of the foregoing, t
-----------------------
ctment as found by such grand jury, and especially upon all its language found in the charging part of that instrument. While it may seem to the court, with its better instructed mind in regard to what the statute requires to be found as to the intent to deceive, that it was neither necessary nor reasonable that the grand jury should attach importance to the fact that it was the Comptroller who was to be deceived, yet it is not impossible nor very improbable that the grand jury looked mainly to that officer as the party whom the prisoner intended to deceive by a report which was made upon his requisition and returned directly to him. . . . How can the court say there may not have been more than one of the jurors who found this indictment, who was satisfied that the false report was made to deceive the Comptroller, but was not convinced that it was made to deceive anybody else? And how can it be said that, with these words stricken out, it is the indictment which was found by the grand <caseOfInterest>jury?" 121 U.S., at 9-10</caseOfInterest>.
[7]  Cf. United States v. Fabrizio, 385 U.S. 263, 275 (1966) (Stewart, J. dissenting) (quoting Bain for proposition that "[w]e long ago rejected the notion that `it lies within the province of a court to change the charging part of an indictment to suit its own notions of what it ought to have been, or what the grand jury would probably have made it if their attention had been called to suggested changes . . .' "); United States v. Ballard, 322 U.S. 78, 90-91 (1944) (Stone, C. J., dissenting) (under Bain an indictment is unconstitutionally amended "when it is so altered as to charge a different offense from that found by the grand jury"). See generally Smith v. United States, 360 U.S. 1, 9 (1959) (citing Bain for importance of a grand jury's intervention as "a substantial safeguard against oppressive and arbitrary proceedings"); Jenkins v. McKeithen, 395 U.S. 411, 430 (1969) (plurality opinion) (citing Bain for proposition that "grand jury is designed to interpose an independent body
