Case of interest: Ex Parte Smith (1988)
-----------------------
 guilty plea, it had heard only "[respondent's] side of the story"; whereas now, it "has had a trial and heard all of the evidence," including testimony that respondent had raped the victim at least five times, forced her to engage in oral sex with him, and threatened her life with a knife. Ibid. The court stated that this new information about the nature of respondent's crimes and their impact on the victim, together with its observations of his "mental outlook on [the offenses] and [his] position during the trial," convinced it that it was "proper to increase the sentence beyond that which was given to [him] on the plea bargain." Id., at 30.
The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed respondent's convictions, as well as the life sentences imposed for burglary and sodomy, but remanded the rape conviction for resentencing. The Supreme Court of Alabama then granted respondent's request for review of the burglary sentence, and reversed and remanded by a divided vote. Ex parte Smith, <caseOfInterest>557 So. 2d 13 </caseOfInterest>(1988). The majority held that under our decision in North Carolina v. Pearce, supra, there can be no increase in sentence "upon reconviction at [a] second trial after the first conviction has been overturned on appeal and remanded for a new trial," unless the increase is justified by " `events subsequent to the first trial.' <caseOfInterest>" 557 So. 2d, at 15</caseOfInterest>. Because the majority thought the trial court had increased respondent's sentence for the burglary conviction based on new information about events occurring prior to the imposition of the original sentence — e. g., new information about the nature of the crime and its effect on the victim — the majority held that Pearce required it to set aside that sentence.
*798 The three dissenting justices argued that the Pearce presumption of vindictiveness did not apply where the original sentence is entered after a guilty plea. Id., at 16. In their view, a defendant "should not be allowed to receive sentence concessions in return for a guilty plea and then, after a successful attack on that plea, bind the State to its original sentencing bargain if he is later convicted after a trial." Id., at 17. Were it otherwise, they argued, a defendant "could go to trial and chance an acquittal knowing he could receive a sentence no harsher than he was originally given." Ibid.[1]
Because of the conflictin
-----------------------
e validity of his plea bargain on the ground that the trial judge had misinformed him about the penalties he could face, respondent Smith went to trial. He was convicted and resentenced to a drastically longer sentence than the one he had initially received as a result of his plea bargain. The majority today finds no infirmity in this result. I, however, continue to believe that, "if for any reason a new trial is granted and there is a conviction a second time, the second penalty imposed cannot exceed the first penalty, if respect is had for the guarantee against *804 double jeopardy." North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U.S. 711, 726-727 (1969) (Douglas, J., concurring, joined by MARSHALL, J.) (emphasis added). I therefore dissent.
NOTES
[1]  The State filed an application for rehearing, which the Supreme Court of Alabama denied. App. to Pet. for Cert. 15. This time four justices dissented.
[2]  Compare, for example, the Alabama Supreme Court's decision in the instant case, Ex parte Smith, <caseOfInterest>557 So. 2d 13 </caseOfInterest>(1988), State v. Sutton, 197 Conn. 485, 498 A.2d 65 (1985), and United States v. Gilliss, 645 F.2d 1269 (CA8 1981), with State v. Bawdon, 386 N.W.2d 484 (S. D. 1986), and McKenzie v. Risley, 842 F.2d 1525, 1536-1537 (CA9 1988) (en banc).
[3]  We adopted a similar prophylactic rule to guard against vindictiveness by the prosecutor at the postconviction stage in Blackledge v. Perry, 417 U.S. 21 (1974). There the prosecutor charged the defendant with a felony when the latter availed himself of de novo review of his initial conviction of a misdemeanor for the same conduct. He received a sentence of five to seven years for the felony compared to the 6-month sentence he had received for the misdemeanor. On these facts, we concluded that a presumption of vindictiveness arose analogous to that in Pearce because the "prosecutor clearly has a considerable stake in discouraging convicted misdemeanants from appealing." Id., at 27. We made clear, however, that "the Due Process Clause is not offende
