Case of interest: Colten v. Kentucky (1972)
-----------------------
 guard against vindictiveness in the resentencing process"). Because the Pearce presumption "may operate in the absence of any proof of an improper motive and thus . . . block a legitimate response to criminal conduct," United States v. Goodwin, supra, at 373, we have limited its application, like that of "other `judicially created means of effectuating the rights secured by the [Constitution],' " to circumstances "where its `objectives are thought most efficaciously served,' " Texas v. McCullough, supra, at 138, quoting Stone v. Powell, 428 U.S. 465, 482, 487 (1976). Such circumstances are those in which there is a "reasonable likelihood," United States v. Goodwin, supra, at 373, that the increase in sentence is the product of actual vindictiveness on the part of the sentencing authority. Where there is no such reasonable likelihood, the burden remains upon the defendant to prove actual vindictiveness, *800 see Wasman v. United States, 468 U.S. 559, 569 (1984).
In Colten v. Kentucky, <caseOfInterest>407 U.S. 104 </caseOfInterest>(1972), for example, we refused to apply the presumption when the increased sentence was imposed by the second court in a two-tiered system which gave a defendant convicted of a misdemeanor in an inferior court the right to trial de novo in a superior court. We observed that the trial de novo represented a "completely fresh determination of guilt or innocence" by a court that was not being "asked to do over what it thought it had already done correctly." Id., at 117. If the de novo trial resulted in a greater penalty, we said that "it no more follows that such a sentence is a vindictive penalty . . . than that the inferior court imposed a lenient penalty." Ibid. Consequently, we rejected the proposition that greater penalties on retrial were explained by vindictiveness "with sufficient frequency to warrant the imposition of a prophylactic rule." Id., at 116. Similarly, in Chaffin v. Stynchcombe, 412 U.S. 17 (1973), we held that no presumption of vindictiveness arose when a second jury,
-----------------------
 satisfies this requirement will usually be far less than that brought out in a full trial on the merits.
As this case demonstrates, supra, at 796-797, in the course of the proof at trial the judge may gather a fuller appreciation of the nature and extent of the crimes charged. The defendant's conduct during trial may give the judge insights into his moral character and suitability for rehabilitation. Supra, at 797. See United States v. Grayson, 438 U.S. 41, 53 (1978) (sentencing authority's perception of the truthfulness of a defendant testifying on his own behalf may be considered in sentencing). Finally, after trial, the factors that may have indicated leniency as consideration for the guilty plea are no longer present. See Brady v. United States, supra, at 752. Here, too, although the same judge who sentenced following the guilty plea also imposes sentence following trial, in conducting the trial the court is not simply "do[ing] over what it thought it had already done correctly." <caseOfInterest>Colten, supra</caseOfInterest>, at *802 117. Each of these factors distinguishes the present case, and others like it, from cases like Pearce. There, the sentencing judge who presides at both trials can be expected to operate in the context of roughly the same sentencing considerations after the second trial as he does after the first; any unexplained change in the sentence is therefore subject to a presumption of vindictiveness. In cases like the present one, however, we think there are enough justifications for a heavier second sentence that it cannot be said to be more likely than not that a judge who imposes one is motivated by vindictiveness.
Our conclusion here is not consistent with Simpson v. Rice, the companion case to North Carolina v. Pearce. In Simpson v. Rice, the complained-of sentence followed trial after Rice had successfully attacked his previous guilty plea. 395 U.S., at 714. We found that a presumption of vindictiveness arose when the State offered "no evidence attempting to justify the increase 
