Case of interest: Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota (1959)
-----------------------
 Hess rule appears artificial at its edges: Whether or not a State may compel a vendor to collect a sales or use tax may turn on the presence in the taxing State of a small sales force, plant, or office. Cf. National Geographic Society v. California Bd. of Equalization, 430 U.S. 551 (1977); Scripto, Inc. v. Carson, 362 U.S. 207 (1960). This artificiality, however, is more than offset by the benefits of a clear rule. Such a rule firmly establishes the boundaries of legitimate state authority to impose a duty to collect sales and use taxes and reduces litigation concerning those taxes. This benefit is important, for as we have so frequently noted, our law in this area is something of a "quagmire" and the "application of constitutional principles to specific state statutes leaves much room for controversy and confusion and little in the way of precise guides to the States in the exercise of their indispensable power of *316 taxation." Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, <caseOfInterest>358 U.S. 450</caseOfInterest>, 457-458 (1959).
Moreover, a bright-line rule in the area of sales and use taxes also encourages settled expectations and, in doing so, fosters investment by businesses and individuals.[9] Indeed, it is not unlikely that the mail-order industry's dramatic growth over the last quarter century is due in part to the bright-line exemption from state taxation created in Bellas Hess. 
Notwithstanding the benefits of bright-line tests, we have, in some situations, decided to replace such tests with more contextual balancing inquiries. For example, in Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corp. v. Arkansas Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 461 U.S. 375 (1983), we reconsidered a bright-line test set forth in Public Util. Comm'n of R. I. v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U.S. 83 (1927). Attleboro distinguished between state regulation of wholesale sales of electricity, which was constitutional as an "indirect" regulation of interstate commerce, and state regulation of retail sales of electricity, which was uncon
-----------------------
 that by now should be familiar, arguing that a tax was unconstitutional if the activity lacked a sufficient connection to the State to give "jurisdiction to tax," Freeman, supra, at 271; or if the tax discriminated against interstate commerce; or if the activity was subjected to multiple tax burdens. 329 U.S., at 276-277. Justice Rutledge later refined these principles in Memphis Natural Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U.S. 80 (1948), in which he described the principles that the Complete Auto Court would later substantially adopt: "[I]t is enough for me to sustain the tax imposed in this case that it is one clearly within the state's power to lay insofar *327 as any limitation of due process or `jurisdiction to tax' in that sense is concerned; it is nondiscriminatory . . . ; [it] is duly apportioned . . . ; and cannot be repeated by any other state." 335 U.S., at 96-97 (concurring opinion) (footnotes omitted).
By the time the Court decided Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, <caseOfInterest>358 U.S. 450 </caseOfInterest>(1959), Justice Rutledge was no longer on the Court, but his view of the nexus requirement as grounded in the Due Process Clause was decisively adopted. In rejecting challenges to a state tax based on the Due Process and Commerce Clauses, the Court stated: "The taxes imposed are levied only on that portion of the taxpayer's net income which arises from its activities within the taxing State. These activities form a sufficient `nexus between such a tax and transactions within a state for which the tax is an exaction.'" Id., at 464 (citation omitted). The Court went on to observe that "[i]t strains reality to say, in terms of our decisions, that each of the corporations here was not sufficiently involved in local events to forge `some definite link, some minimum connection' sufficient to satisfy due process requirements." Id., at 464-465 (quoting Miller Brothers Co. v. Maryland, 347 U.S. 340, 344-345 (1954)). When the Court announced its fourpart synthesis in Complete Auto, the nexus req
-----------------------
. 232 (1987).
[8]  In addition to its common-carrier contacts with the State, Quill also licensed software to some of its North Dakota clients. See n.1, supra . The State "concedes that the existence in North Dakota of a few floppy diskettes to which Quill holds title seems a slender thread upon which to base nexus." Brief for Respondent 46. We agree. Although title to "a few floppy diskettes" present in a State might constitute some minimal nexus, in National Geographic Society v. California Bd. of Equalization, 430 U.S. 551, 556 (1977), we expressly rejected a "`slightest presence' standard of constitutional nexus." We therefore conclude that Quill's licensing of software in this case does not meet the "substantial nexus" requirement of the Commerce Clause.
[9]  It is worth noting that Congress has, at least on one occasion, followed a similar approach in its regulation of state taxation. In response to this Court's indication in Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, <caseOfInterest>358 U.S. 450</caseOfInterest>, 452 (1959), that, so long as the taxpayer has an adequate nexus with the taxing State, "net income from the interstate operations of a foreign corporation may be subjected to state taxation," Congress enacted Pub. L. 86-272, codified at 15 U.S. C. ยง 381. That statute provides that a State may not impose a net income tax on any person if that person's "only business activities within such State [involve] the solicitation of orders [approved] outside the State [and] filled . . . outside the State." Ibid. As we noted in Heublein, Inc. v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 409 U.S. 275, 280 (1972), in enacting ยง 381, "Congress attempted to allay the apprehension of businessmen that `mere solicitation' would subject them to state taxation. . . . Section 381 was designed to define clearly a lower limit for the exercise of [the State's power to tax]. Clarity that would remove uncertainty was Congress' primary goal. " (Emphasis supplied.)
[10]  Many States have enacted use taxes. See App. 3 to Brief
