Case of interest: Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corp. v. Arkansas Public Service Commission (1983)
-----------------------
ve so frequently noted, our law in this area is something of a "quagmire" and the "application of constitutional principles to specific state statutes leaves much room for controversy and confusion and little in the way of precise guides to the States in the exercise of their indispensable power of *316 taxation." Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, 358 U.S. 450, 457-458 (1959).
Moreover, a bright-line rule in the area of sales and use taxes also encourages settled expectations and, in doing so, fosters investment by businesses and individuals.[9] Indeed, it is not unlikely that the mail-order industry's dramatic growth over the last quarter century is due in part to the bright-line exemption from state taxation created in Bellas Hess. 
Notwithstanding the benefits of bright-line tests, we have, in some situations, decided to replace such tests with more contextual balancing inquiries. For example, in Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corp. v. Arkansas Pub. Serv. Comm'n, <caseOfInterest>461 U.S. 375 </caseOfInterest>(1983), we reconsidered a bright-line test set forth in Public Util. Comm'n of R. I. v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U.S. 83 (1927). Attleboro distinguished between state regulation of wholesale sales of electricity, which was constitutional as an "indirect" regulation of interstate commerce, and state regulation of retail sales of electricity, which was unconstitutional as a "direct regulation" of commerce. In Arkansas Electric, we considered whether to *317 "follow the mechanical test set out in Attleboro, or the balance-of-interests test applied in our Commerce Clause <caseOfInterest>cases." 461 U.S., at 390-391</caseOfInterest>. We first observed that "the principle of stare decisis counsels us, here as elsewhere, not lightly to set aside specific guidance of the sort we find in Attleboro. " Id., at 391. In deciding to reject the Attleboro  analysis, we were influenced by the fact that the "mechanical test" was "anachronistic," that the Court had rarely relied on the test, and that we could "see no strong reliance interests" that would be upset by the rejection of that <caseOfInterest>test. 461 U.S., at 391-392</caseOfInterest>. None of those factors obtains in this case. First, the Attleboro rule was "anachronistic" because it relied on formal distinctions between "direct" and "indirect" regulation (and on the regulatory counterparts of our Freeman line of cases); as discussed above, Bellas Hess turned on a different logic and thus remained sound after the Court repudiated an analogous distinction in Complete Auto. Second, unlike the Attleboro rule, we have, in our decisions, frequently relied on the Bellas Hess rule in the last 25 years, see supra, at 311, and we have never intimated in our review of sales or use taxes that Bellas Hess was unsound. Finally, again unlike the Attleboro rule, the Bellas Hess rule has engendered substantial reliance and has become part of the basic framework of a sizable industry. The "interest in stability and orderly development of the law" that undergirds the doctrine of stare decisis, see Runyon v. McCrary, 427 U.S. 160, 190-191 (1976) (Stevens, J., concurring), therefore 
