Case of interest: Nielsen (1889)
-----------------------
ifferent meanings—that what is the same offense is yet not the same offense. Justice Souter provides no authority whatsoever (and we are aware of none) for the bald assertion that "we have long held that [the government] *705 must sometimes bring its prosecutions for [separate] offenses together." Post, at 747. The collateral-estoppel effect attributed to the Double Jeopardy Clause, see Ashe v. Swenson, 397 U. S. 436 (1970), may bar a later prosecution for a separate offense where the Government has lost an earlier prosecution involving the same facts. But this does not establish that the Government "must . . . bring its prosecutions. . . together." It is entirely free to bring them separately, and can win convictions in both. Of course the collateralestoppel issue is not raised in this case.
Justice Souter relies upon four cases to establish the existence of some minimal antecedents to Grady. Post, at 749-758. The fountainhead of the "same-conduct" rule, he asserts, is In re Nielsen, <caseOfInterest>131 U. S. 176</caseOfInterest> (1889). That is demonstrably wrong. Nielsen simply applies the common proposition, entirely in accord with Blockburger, that prosecution for a greater offense (cohabitation, defined to require proof of adultery) bars prosecution for a lesser included offense (adultery). That is clear from the Nielsen Court's framing of the question ("Being of opinion, therefore, that habeas corpus was a proper remedy for the petitioner, if the crime of adultery with which he was charged was included in the crime of unlawful cohabitation for which he was convicted and punished, that question is now to be considered," <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 185</caseOfInterest> (emphasis added)), from its legal analysis, id., at 186-189, and from its repeated observations that cohabitation required proof of adultery, id., at 187, 189.[10]
*706 His second case comes almost a century later. Brown v. Ohio, 432 U. S. 161 (1977), contains no support for his position except a footnote that cites Nielsen for the proposition that "[t]he Blockburger test is not the only standard for determining whether successive prosecutions impermissibly involve the same offense." Brown, supra, at 166-167, n. 6. Not only is this footnote the purest dictum, but it flatly contradicts the text of the opinion which, on the very next page, describes Nielsen as the first Supreme Court case to endorse the Blockburger rule. Brown, supra, at 168. Quoting that suspect dictum multiple times, see post, at 748, 754, cannot convert it into case law. See United States Nat. Bank of Ore. v. Independent Ins. Agents of America, Inc., 508 U. S. 439, 463, n. 11 (1993) (emphasizing "the need to distingu
-----------------------
is] barred," and that conduct, and not merely elements of the offense, must be the object of inquiry. Post, at 755. Surely not. Harris  never uses the word "conduct," and its entire discussion focuses on the elements of the two offenses. See, e. g., 433 U. S., at 682-683, n. (to prove felony murder, "it was necessary for all the ingredients of the underlying felony" to be proved). Far from validating Justice Souter's extraordinarily implausible reading of Nielsen, Harris plainly rejects that reading, treating the earlier case as having focused (like Blockburger ) upon the elements of the offense. Immediately *707 after stating that conviction for felony murder, a "greater crime," "cannot be had without conviction of the lesser crime," the Harris Court quotes Nielsen `s statement that "`a person [who] has been tried and convicted for a crime which has various incidents included in it, . . . cannot be a second time tried for one of those incidents.' " 433 U. S., at 682-683, quoting from <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>. It is clear from that context that Harris regarded "incidents included" to mean "offenses included"—a reference to defined crimes rather than to conduct.
Finally, Justice Souter misdescribes Vitale. Despite his bold assertion to the contrary, see post, at 757, Vitale  unquestionably reads Harris as merely an application of the double jeopardy bar to lesser and greater included offenses.[11] Justice Souter instead elevates the statement in Vitale  that, on certain hypothetical facts, the petitioner would have a "substantial" "claim" of double jeopardy on a Grady -type theory, see post, at 756-757, into a holding that the petitioner would win on that theory. Post, at 757, 763. No Justice, the Vitale dissenters included, has ever construed this passage as answering, rather than simply raising, the question on which we later granted certiorari in Grady. See 447 U. S., at 426 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (in addition to finding the same-conduct claim "substantial," dissent would find it "dis
-----------------------
ll be forced to defend against the same charge again and again, and in which the government may perfect its presentation with dress rehearsal after dress rehearsal, it should be irrelevant that the second prosecution would require the defendant to defend himself not only from the charge that he committed the robbery, but also from the charge of some additional fact, in this case, that the scene of the crime was a dwelling.[4] If,instead, protection against successive prosecutions were as limited as it would be by Blockburger alone, the doctrine would be as striking for its anomalies as for the limited protection it would provide. Thus, in the relatively few successive prosecution cases we have had over the years, we have not held that the Blockburger test is the only hurdle the government must clear (with one exception, see infra, at 758-759).

IV
The recognition that a Blockburger rule is insufficient protection against successive prosecution can be seen as long ago as In re Nielsen, <caseOfInterest>131 U. S. 176</caseOfInterest> (1889), where we held that conviction for one statutory offense precluded later prosecution for another, even though each required proof of a fact the other did not. There, appellant Nielsen had been convicted after indictment and a guilty plea in what was then the Territory of Utah for "cohabit[ing] with more than one woman," based upon his cohabitation with Anna Lavinia *750 Nielsen and Caroline Nielsen during the period from October 15, 1885, to May 13, 1888, in violation of a federal antipolygamy law. See Act ofMar. 22, 1882, ch. 47,§ 3, 22 Stat. 31. Nielsen served his sentence of three months' imprisonment and paid a $100 fine. He then came to trial on a second indictment charging him under another federal antipolygamy law with committing adultery with Caroline Nielsen on the day following the period described in the first indictment, May 14, 1888, based on the fact that he was married and had a lawful wife, and was not married to Caroline Nielsen. See Act of Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 397, § 3, 24 Stat. 635. Nielsen pleaded former jeopardy to the second indictment, arguing first that the true period of the cohabitation charged in the first indictment extended well beyond May 13 until the day of the indictments, September 27, 1888, and that "the offence charged in both indictments was one and the same offence and not divisible." <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 178</caseOfInterest>. The Government argued that the two crimes were not the same because the elements of the two offenses differed.
The Nielsen Court first considered the question whether the offense of unlawful cohabitation included, in a temporal sense, the single act of adultery subsequently prosecuted. On this question, the Court first noted, following In re Snow, 120 U. S. 274 (1887), that although the indictment for cohabitation listed May 13, 1888, as the end of that offense, cohabitation is a "`continuing offence . . . [that] canbe committed but once, for the purposes of indictment or prosecution, prior to the time the prosecution is instituted.' " <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 186</caseOfInterest> (quoting Snow, supra, at 282). Thus, the Nielsen Court interpreted the indictment for cohabitation as covering a single continuing offense that ended on the day the indictment was handed up. See <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 187</caseOfInterest>.
Having concluded that the offense of cohabitation was a "continuous" one, "extending over the whole period, including the time when the adultery was alleged to have been committed," id., at 187, the Court then considered the question *751 whether double jeopardy applies where a defendant is first convicted of a continuing offense and then indicted for some single act that the continuing offense includes. The Court answered this question by quoting with approval an observation found in Morey v. Commonwealth, 108 Mass. 433 (1871), that "[a] conviction of being a common seller of intoxicating liquors has been held to bar a prosecution for a single sale of such liquors within the same time." Id., at 435. The Court then conceded that quoting this observation from the Morey opinion would not alone suffice to decide the case before it, since the Government was relying on a further statement from Morey, this one expressing the Morey court's reason for holding that a prior conviction on a charge of "lewdly and lasciviously associating" with an unmarried woman was no bar to a subsequent prosecution for adultery: "[A]lthough proof of the same acts of unlawful intercourse was introduced on both trials[,] . . . the evidence required to support the two indictments was not the same." <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>. The Morey court's reasoning behind this holding was that "[a] single act may be an offence against two statutes; and if each statute requires proof of an additional fact which the other does not, an acquittal or conviction under either statute does not exempt the defendant from prosecution and punishment under the other." 108 Mass., at 434, quoted in Nielsen, supra, at 188. Morey `s rule governing subsequent prosecution, in other words, was what we know today as the Blockburger elements test.
The Nielsen Court held the Blockburger test inapplicable for two reasons. First, it distinguished Morey by noting that "[t]he crime of loose and lascivious association . . . did not necessarily imply sexual intercourse," <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>, while the continuous offense involved in Nielsen, cohabitation under the polygamy statute, required proof of "[l]iving together as man and wife," which "[o]f course" implies "sexual intercourse," even though intercourse need not have been pleaded or proven under a cohabitation indictment, <caseOfInterest>id.,</caseOfInterest> at *752 187. (The second offense charged in both Morey and the case before the Court in Nielsen was adultery, which, of course, did require an act of sexual intercourse.) But even on the assumption that the continuous crime in Morey necessarily did imply sexual intercourse, rendering the cases indistinguishable on their facts, the Nielsen Court indicated that it would not follow the holding in Morey. To the Nielsen Court, it was "very clear that where, as in this case, a person has been tried and convicted for a crime which has various incidents included in it, he cannot be a second time tried for one of those incidents without being twice put in jeopardy for the same offence." <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>.
By this last statement, the Court rejected, in a successive prosecution case, the double jeopardy test set out in Morey,  which we later adopted in Blockburger ; instead of agreeing with Morey that "`[t]he test is not, whether the defendant has already been tried for the same act,' " the Court concluded that a defendant "cannot be a second time tried" for a single act included as one of the "various incidents" of a continuous crime for which he has already been convicted.[5] <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>.
The Court then went on to address the contention that adultery, as opposed to sexual intercourse, is not an act included in the continuing offense of cohabitation, because *753 adultery requires proof that one of the parties is married, while cohabitation does not require such proof. Although the Court agreed that adultery contains such an element, the Court found that this element was irrelevant under its successive prosecution rule, because sexual intercourse is the "essential and principal ingredient of adultery." Id., at 189. In other words, what may not be successively prosecuted is the act constituting the "principal ingredient" of the second offense, if that act has already been the subject of the prior prosecution. It is beside the point that the subsequent offense is defined to include, in addition to that act, some further element uncommon to the first offense (where the first offense also includes an element not shared by the second). Thus, as the Court states its holding, the cohabitation conviction "was a good bar" because "the material part of the adultery charged [i. e., intercourse] was comprised within the unlawful cohabitation of which the petitioner was already convicted." Id., at 187 (emphasis supplied); see also <caseOfInterest>ibid.</caseOfInterest>  (sexual intercourse "was the integral part of the adultery charged in the second indictment") (emphasis supplied).
One final aspect of the Nielsen opinion deserves attention. After rejecting a Blockburger test for successive prosecutions, the Court then proceeded to discuss the familiar rule that conviction of a greater offense bars subsequent prosecution for a lesser included offense. This discussion misleads the majority into thinking that Nielsen does nothing more than apply that familiar rule, which is, of course, a corollary to the Blockburger test. See ante, at 705. But Nielsen `s discussion did not proceed on the ground that the Court believed adultery to be a lesser included offense of cohabitation (and thus its later prosecution barred for that reason); on the contrary, the Court had just finished explaining that marriage must be proven for adultery, but not for cohabitation, which precluded finding adultery to be a lesser included offense of cohabitation. The discussion of 
-----------------------
r if it had been holding only that a subsequent prosecution for a lesser included offense was barred, the adultery prosecution would not have been. There can be no question that the Court was adopting the very different rule that subsequent prosecution is barred for any charge comprising an act that has been the subject of prior conviction.[6]

V
Our modern cases reflect the concerns that resulted in Nielsen `s holding. We have already quoted the observation that "[t]he Blockburger test is not the only standard for determining whether successive prosecutions impermissibly involve the same offense. Even if two offenses are sufficiently different to permit the imposition of consecutive sentences, successive prosecutions will be barred in some circumstances where the second prosecution requires the relitigation of factual issues already resolved by the first." Brown v. Ohio, 432 U. S., at 166-167, n. 6. The Brown Court, indeed, relied on Nielsen for this proposition. "[I]n In re Nielsen, <caseOfInterest>131 U. S. 176</caseOfInterest> (1889), the Court held that a conviction of a Mormon on a charge of cohabiting with his two wives over a 2 12-year period barred a subsequent prosecution for adultery with one of them on the day following the end of that period . . . . [S]trict application of the Blockburger test would have permitted *755 imposition of consecutive sentences had the charges been consolidated in a single proceeding. . . . [C]onviction for adultery required proof that the defendant had sexual intercourse with one woman while married to another; conviction for cohabitation required proof that the defendant lived with more than one woman at the same time. Nonetheless, the Court . . . held the separate offenses to be the `same.' " <caseOfInterest>Ibid.</caseOfInterest> 
In the past 20 years the Court has addressed just this problem of successive prosecution on three occasions. In Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977) (per curiam), we held that prosecution for a robbery with firearms was barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause when the defendant had already been convicted of felony murder comprising the same robbery with firearms as the underlying felony. Of course the elements of the two offenses were different enough to permit more than one punishment under the Blockburger  test: felony murder required the killing of a person by one engaged in the commission of a felony, see 21 Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, § 701 (1971); robbery with firearms required the use of a firearm in the commission of a robbery, see §§ 801, 791. Harris v. State, 555 P. 2d 76, 80 (Okla. Crim. App. 1976), rev'd, 433 U. S. 682 (1977).
In Harris, however, we held that "[w]hen, as here, conviction of a greater crime, murder, cannot be had without conviction of the lesser crime, robbery 
-----------------------
itigant's legal theory unless we agree with the litigant on all the applications of the theory. The standard to be applied in determining the double jeopardy effect of criminal charges based on the same conduct (Blockburger vs. Grady ) assuredly is included within the question presented. That makes Justice White's citation of cases declining to consider legal issues not raised below wholly beside the point. Nor can we see any abuse of what Justice White himself regards as a prudential limitation, when the evident factual difference between the charges and the CPO order is central to proper constitutional analysis.
[11]  Justice Souter has apparently been led astray by his misinterpretation of the word "incidents" in the following passage of Nielsen: "[W]here, as in this case, a person has been tried and convicted for a crime which has various incidents included in it, he cannot be a second time tried for one of those incidents without being twice put in jeopardy for the same offence." <caseOfInterest>131 U. S., at 188</caseOfInterest>. He apparently takes "incident" to mean "event" or "conduct." See post, at 752, and n. 5, 757-758. What it obviously means, however, is "element." See Black's Law Dictionary 762 (6th ed. 1990) (defining "incidents of ownership"); J. Bouvier, Law Dictionary 783-784 (1883) (defining "incident" and giving examples of "incident to a reversion," and "incidents" to a contract). That is perfectly clear from the very next sentence of Nielsen (which Justice Souter does not quote): "It may be contended that adultery is not an incident of unlawful cohabitation . . . ."131 U. S.,at 189.
[12]  There is, for example, no other way to read the following passage in Illinois v. Vitale, quoted by Justice Souter, post, at 757: "[In Harris ] we treated a killing in the course of a robbery as itself a separate statutory offense, and the robbery as a species of lesser-included offense." 447 U. S. 410, 420 (1980).
[13]  Justice Souter contends that Burton is not in point because the case arose on a demurrer 
-----------------------
 the threat allegedly made on November 12, 1987, the court stated that it was "not satisfied if those words as such, in spite of the context of this dispute, constitutes a legal threat." Ibid. (emphasis added). For the same reason that the court concluded that the word "assault" referred to the District's criminal provisions, it decided that the CPO's reference to "threats" was to "legal" threats—i. e., threats as defined by the law. Moreover, I note that the Government's presentation of this case coincides with this view. See Brief for United States 26 (describing the order not to "assault or in any manner threaten" as "direct[ing] Foster . . . to refrain from engaging in criminal conduct").

In any event, even assuming that the prohibition in the court order referred to threats other than those already outlawed, that should not change the outcome of this case. The offense prohibited in the CPO—to threaten "in any manner"—at the very least is "an incident and part of," In re Nielsen, <caseOfInterest>131 U. S. 176</caseOfInterest>, 187 (1889),the offense of criminal threat defined in § 22-2307. Therefore, for reasons explained below, prosecution for one should preclude subsequent prosecution for the other.
[9]  Therefore, I obviously disagree with The Chief Justice's Blockburger analysis which would require overruling not only Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S. 508 (1990), but, as Justice Scalia explains, Harris v.Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), as well. See ante, at 698. At the very least, where conviction of the crime of contempt cannot be had without conviction of a statutory crime forbidden by court order, the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution for the latter after acquittal or conviction of the former.
[10]  Similar results follow, of course, from The Chief Justice's interpretation of the Clause.
[1]  Justice Scalia's dismissal of this concern is difficult to follow. As I understand it, he maintains that no double jeopardy problem exists because under Blockburger a conviction for assault would not be upheld. 
