Case of interest: Grady v. Corbin (1990)
-----------------------
2-504); threatening to injure another on or about November 12, 1987, and March 26 and May 17, 1988 (Counts II—IV, violation of § 22— 2307); and assault with intent to kill on or about May 21, 1988 (Count V, violation of § 22-501). App. 43-44. Ana Foster was the complainant in all counts; the first and last counts were based on the events for which Foster had been held in contempt, and the other three were based on the alleged events for which Foster was acquitted of contempt. Like Dixon, Foster filed a motion to dismiss, claiming a double jeopardy bar to all counts, and also collateral estoppel as to Counts II—IV. The trial court denied the double jeopardy claim and did not rule on the collateral-estoppel assertion.
The Government appealed the double jeopardy ruling in Dixon, and Foster appealed the trial court's denial of his motion. The District of Columbia Court of Appeals consolidated *694 the two cases, reheard them en banc, and, relying on our recent decision in Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), ruled that both subsequent prosecutions were barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause. 598 A. 2d, at 725. In its petition for certiorari, the Government presented the sole question "[w]hether the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution of a defendant on substantive criminal charges based upon the same conduct for which he previously has been held in criminal contempt of court." Pet. for Cert. I. We granted certiorari, 503 U. S. 1004 (1992).

II
To place these cases in context, one must understand that they are the consequence of a historically anomalous use of the contempt power. In both Dixon and Foster, a court issued an order directing a particular individual not to commit criminal offenses. (In Dixon's case, the court incorporated the entire criminal code; in Foster's case, the criminal offense of simple assault.) That could not have occurred at common law, or in the 19th-century American judicial system.
At common law, the criminal contempt power was confined to sanctions for
-----------------------
se contains an element not contained in the other; if not, they are the "same offence" and double jeopardy bars additional punishment and successive prosecution. In a case such as Yancy, for example, in which *697 the contempt prosecution was for disruption of judicial business, the same-elements test would not bar subsequent prosecution for the criminal assault that was part of the disruption, because the contempt offense did not require the element of criminal conduct, and the criminal offense did not require the element of disrupting judicial business.[1]
We recently held in Grady that in addition to passing the Blockburger test, a subsequent prosecution must satisfy a "same-conduct" test to avoid the double jeopardy bar. The Grady test provides that, "if, to establish an essential element of an offense charged in that prosecution, the government will prove conduct that constitutes an offense for which the defendant has already been prosecuted," a second prosecution may not be had. <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 510</caseOfInterest>.

III

A
The first question before us today is whether Blockburger  analysis permits subsequent prosecution in this new criminal contempt context, where judicial order has prohibited criminal act. If it does, we must then proceed to consider whether Grady also permits it. See Grady, supra, at 516.
We begin with Dixon. The statute applicable in Dixon's contempt prosecution provides that "[a] person who has been conditionally released . . . and who has violated a condition of release shall be subject to . . . prosecution for contempt of court." § 23-1329(a). Obviously, Dixon could not commit an "offence" under this provision until an order setting out conditions was issued. The statute by itself imposes no legal obligation on anyone. Dixon's cocaine possession, although an offense under D. C. Code Ann. § 33-541(a) (1988 and Supp. 1992), was not an offense under § 23-1329 until a *698 judge incorporated the statutory drug offense into his release order.
In this situation, in which the co
-----------------------
injury, or to damage property—which conviction of the contempt (for violating the CPO provision that Foster not "in any manner threaten") did not.[8] Each *703 offense therefore contained a separate element, and the Blockburger test for double jeopardy was not met.

IV
Having found that at least some of the counts at issue here are not barred by the Blockburger test, we must consider whether they are barred by the new, additional double jeopardy test we announced three Terms ago in Grady v. Corbin. [9] They undoubtedly are, since Grady prohibits "a subsequent prosecution if, to establish an essential element of an offense charged in that prosecution [here, assault as an element of assault with intent to kill, or threatening as an element of threatening bodily injury], the government will *704 prove conduct that constitutes an offense for which the defendant has already been prosecuted [here, the assault and the threatening, which conduct constituted the offense of violating the CPO]." <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 510</caseOfInterest>.
We have concluded, however, that Grady must be overruled. Unlike Blockburger analysis, whose definition of what prevents two crimes from being the "same offence," U. S. Const., Amdt. 5, has deep historical roots and has been accepted in numerous precedents of this Court, Grady lacks constitutional roots. The "same-conduct" rule it announced is wholly inconsistent with earlier Supreme Court precedent and with the clear common-law understanding of double jeopardy. See, e. g., Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S., at 345 (in subsequent prosecution, "[w]hile it is true that the conduct of the accused was one and the same, two offenses resulted, each of which had an element not embraced in the other"). We need not discuss the many proofs of these statements, which were set forth at length in the Grady dissent. See <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 526</caseOfInterest> (opinion of Scalia, J.). We will respond, however, to the contrary contentions of today's proGrady dissents.
The centerpiece of Justice Souter's analysis is an appealing theory of a "successive prosecution" strand of the Double Jeopardy Clause that has a different meaning from its supposed "successive punishment" strand. We have often noted that the Clause serves the function of preventing both successive punishment and successive prosecution, see, e. g., North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U. S. 711 (1969), but there is no authority, except Grady, for the proposition that it has different meanings in the two contexts. That is perhaps because it is embarrassing to assert that the single term "same offence" (the words of the Fifth Amendment at issue here) has two different meanings—that what is the same offense is yet not the same offense. Justice Souter provides no authority whatsoever (and we are aware of none) for the bald assertion that "we have long held that [the government] *705 must 
-----------------------
ext that Harris regarded "incidents included" to mean "offenses included"—a reference to defined crimes rather than to conduct.
Finally, Justice Souter misdescribes Vitale. Despite his bold assertion to the contrary, see post, at 757, Vitale  unquestionably reads Harris as merely an application of the double jeopardy bar to lesser and greater included offenses.[11] Justice Souter instead elevates the statement in Vitale  that, on certain hypothetical facts, the petitioner would have a "substantial" "claim" of double jeopardy on a Grady -type theory, see post, at 756-757, into a holding that the petitioner would win on that theory. Post, at 757, 763. No Justice, the Vitale dissenters included, has ever construed this passage as answering, rather than simply raising, the question on which we later granted certiorari in Grady. See 447 U. S., at 426 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (in addition to finding the same-conduct claim "substantial," dissent would find it "dispositive"). See also Grady, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 510</caseOfInterest> (Vitale  "suggested" same-conduct test adopted in Grady ).
In contrast to the above-discussed dicta relied upon by Justice Souter, there are two pre-Grady (and postNielsen ) cases that are directly on point. In both Gavieres  v. United States, 220 U. S., at 343, and Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 379-381 (1906), the Court upheld subsequent *708 prosecutions after concluding that the Blockburger  test (and only the Blockburger test) was satisfied.[12] These cases are incompatible with the belief that Nielsen had created an additional requirement beyond the "elements" standard.[13] Totally ignored by Justice Souter are the *709 many early American cases construing the Double Jeopardy Clause, which support only an "elements" test. See Grady, supra, at 533-535 (Scalia, J., dissenting).[14]
But Grady was not only wrong in principle; it has already proved unstable in application. Less than two years after it came down, in United States v. Felix, 503 U. S. 378 (1992), we were forced
-----------------------
ppose the State first tries the defendant for felony murder, based on robbery, and then indicts the defendant for robbery with a firearm in the same incident. Absent Grady, our cases provide a clear answer to the double jeopardy claim in this situation. Under Blockburger, the second prosecution is not barred—as it clearly was not barred at common law, as a famous case establishes. In King v. Vandercomb, 2 Leach. 708, 717, 168 Eng. Rep. 455, 460 (K. B. 1796), the government abandoned, midtrial, prosecution of defendant for burglary by breaking and entering and stealing goods, because it turned out that no property had been removed on the date of the alleged burglary. The defendant was then prosecuted for burglary by breaking and entering with intent to steal. That second prosecution was allowed, because "these two offences are so distinct in their nature, that evidence of one of them will not support an indictment for the other." Ibid. Accord, English and American cases cited in Grady, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 532-535</caseOfInterest> (Scalia, J., dissenting).[15]
*711 Having encountered today yet another situation in which the pre-Grady understanding of the Double Jeopardy Clause allows a second trial, though the "same-conduct" test would not, we think it time to acknowledge what is now, three years after Grady, compellingly clear: The case was a mistake. We do not lightly reconsider a precedent, but, because Grady  contradicted an "unbroken line of decisions," contained "less than accurate" historical analysis, and has produced "confusion," [16] we do so here. Solorio v. United States, 483 U. S. *712 435, 439, 442, 450 (1987). Although stare decisis is the "preferred course" in constitutional adjudication, "when governing decisions are unworkable or are badly reasoned, `this Court has never felt constrained to follow precedent.' " Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827 (1991) (quoting Smith  v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649, 665 (1944), and collecting examples). We would mock stare decisis and only add chaos to our do
-----------------------
r the same conduct with possession with intent to distribute cocaine. Respondent Michael Foster assaulted and threatened his estranged wife. For that he was held in contempt of court for violating a civil protection order entered in a domestic relations proceeding. He was later criminally charged for the same conduct with assault, threatening to injure another, and assault with intent to kill.
The Court today concludes that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits the subsequent prosecutions of Foster for assault and Dixon for possession with intent to distribute cocaine, but does not prohibit the subsequent prosecutions of Foster for threatening to injure another or for assault with intent to kill. After finding that at least some of the charges here are not prohibited by the "same-elements" test set out in Blockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299, 304 (1932), the Court goes on to consider whether there is a double jeopardy bar under the "same-conduct" test set out in Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest>, 510 (1990), and determines that there is. However, because the same-conduct test is inconsistent with the text and history of the Double Jeopardy Clause, was a departure from our earlier precedents, and has proven difficult to apply, the Court concludes that Grady must be overruled. I do not join Part III of Justice Scalia's opinion because I think that none of the criminal prosecutions in this case were barred under Blockburger. I must then confront the expanded version of double jeopardy embodied in Grady.  For the reasons set forth in the dissent in Grady, supra, at 526 (opinion of Scalia, J.), and in Part IV of the Court's opinion, I, too, think that Grady must be overruled. I *714 therefore join Parts I, II, and IV of the Court's opinion, and write separately to express my disagreement with Justice Scalia's application of Blockburger in Part III.
In my view, Blockburger `s same-elements test requires us to focus, not on the terms of the particular court orders involved, but on t
-----------------------
d, Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U. S. 651, 671 (1974). Today's decision shows the pitfalls inherent in reading too much into a "terse per curiam. " Ante, at 698. Justice Scalia's discussion of Harris is nearly as long as Harris itself and consists largely of a quote, not from Harris, but from a subsequent opinion analyzing Harris.  Justice Scalia then concludes that Harris somehow requires us to look to the facts that must be proved under the particular court orders in question (rather than under the general law of criminal contempt) in determining whether contempt and the related substantive offenses are the same for double jeopardy purposes. This interpretation of Harris is both unprecedented and mistaken.
Our double jeopardy cases applying Blockburger have focused on the statutory elements of the offenses charged, not *717 on the facts that must be proved under the particular indictment at issue—an indictment being the closest analogue to the court orders in this case. See, e. g., Grady, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 528</caseOfInterest> (Scalia, J., dissenting) ("Th[e] test focuses on the statutory elements of the two crimes with which a defendant has been charged, not on the proof that is offered or relied upon to secure a conviction"); Albernaz v. United States, 450 U. S. 333, 338 (1981) ("`[T]he Court's application of the test focuses on the statutory elements of the offense' " (quoting Iannelli  v. United States, 420 U. S. 770, 785, n. 17 (1975))); United States v. Woodward, 469 U. S. 105, 108 (1985) (per curiam)  (looking to the statutory elements of the offense in applying Blockburger ). By focusing on the facts needed to show a violation of the specific court orders involved in this case, and not on the generic elements of the crime of contempt of court, Justice Scalia's double jeopardy analysis bears a striking resemblance to that found in Grady —not what one would expect in an opinion that overrules Grady. 
Close inspection of the crimes at issue in Harris reveals, moreover, that our decision in that case wa
-----------------------
er of a police officer, see, e. g., Ind. Code § 9-21-8—1 (Supp. 1992), and that the police officer's order was, "Don't shoot that man." Under Justice Scalia's flawed reading of Harris, the elements of the offense of failure to obey a police officer's lawful order would include, for purposes of Blockburger `s sameelements test, the elements of, perhaps, murder or manslaughter, in effect converting those felonies into a lesser included offense of the crime of failure to comply with a lawful order of a police officer.
In sum, I think that the substantive criminal prosecutions in this case, which followed convictions for criminal contempt, *720 did not violate the Double Jeopardy Clause, at least before our decision in Grady. Under Grady, "the Double Jeopardy Clause bars a subsequent prosecution if, to establish an essential element of an offense charged in that prosecution, the government will prove conduct that constitutes an offense for which the defendant has already been prosecuted." <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 510</caseOfInterest>. As the Court points out, see ante, at 703-704, this case undoubtedly falls within that expansive formulation: To secure convictions on the substantive criminal charges in this case, the Government will have to prove conduct that was the basis for the contempt convictions. Forced, then, to confront Grady, I join the Court in overruling that decision.
Justice White, with whom Justice Stevens joins, and with whom Justice Souter joins as to Part I, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
I am convinced that the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution for an offense if the defendant already has been held in contempt for its commission. Therefore, I agree with the Court's conclusion that both Dixon's prosecution for possession with intent to distribute cocaine and Foster's prosecution for simple assault were prohibited. In my view, however, Justice Scalia's opinion gives short shrift to the arguments raised by the United States. I also am uncomfortable with the reasoning underlying this holding, in particular the application of Blockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299 (1932), to the facts of this case, a reasoning that betrays an overly technical interpretation of the Constitution. As a result, I concur only in the judgment in Part III—A.
The mischief in the Court's approach is far more apparent in the second portion of today's decision. Constrained by its narrow reading of the Double Jeopardy Clause, it asserts that the fate of Foster's remaining counts depends on Grady  v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), which the Court then chooses *721 to overrule. Ante, at 704. I do not agree. Resolution of the question presented by Foster's case no more requires reliance on Grady than it points to reasons for reversing that decision. Rather, as I construe the Clause, double jeopardy principles compel equal treatment of all of Foster's counts. I dissent from the Court's holding to the contrary. Inasmuch as Grady has been dragged into this case, however, I agree with Justice Blackmun and Justice Souter that it should not be overruled. Post, at 741, 744. From this aspect of the Court's opinion as well, I dissent.

I
The chief issue before us is whether the Double Jeopardy Clause applies at all to cases such as these. Justice Scalia finds that it applies, but does so in conclusory fashion, without dealing adequately with either the Government's arguments or the practical consequences of today's decision. Both, in my view, are worthy of more.

A
The position of the United States is that, for th
-----------------------
 Dixon's subsequent prosecution and Count I of Foster's subsequent prosecution were barred. I disagree with Justice Scalia's application of Blockburger in Part III—B. From Part IV of the opinion, in which the majority decides to overrule Grady, I dissent.
Justice Blackmun, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
I cannot agree that contempt of court is the "same offence" under the Double Jeopardy Clause as either assault with intent to kill or possession of cocaine with intent to distribute it. I write separately to emphasize two interrelated points.

I
I agree with Justice Souter that "the Blockburger test is not the exclusive standard for determining whether the rule against successive prosecutions applies in a given case." Post, at 756. I also share both his and Justice White's dismay that the Court so cavalierly has overruled a precedent that is barely three years old and that has proved neither unworkable nor unsound. I continue to believe that Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), was correctly decided, and that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits a subsequent criminal prosecution where the proof required to convict on the later offense would require proving conduct that constitutes an offense for which a defendant already has been prosecuted.
If this were a case involving successive prosecutions under the substantive criminal law (as was true in Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), Illinois v. Vitale, 447 U. S. 410 (1980), and Grady ), I would agree that the Double Jeopardy *742 Clause could bar the subsequent prosecution. But we are concerned here with contempt of court, a special situation. We explained in Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et Fils S. A., 481 U. S. 787 (1987):
"The fact that we have come to regard criminal contempt as `a crime in the ordinary sense,' [Bloom v. Illi- nois, 391 U. S. 194, 201 (1968)], does not mean that any prosecution of contempt must now be considered an execution of the criminal law in which only the Execu
-----------------------
stantive criminal law. Because I believe that neither Dixon nor Foster would be "subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb," U. S. Const., Amdt. 5, I would reverse the judgment of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals.
Justice Souter, with whom Justice Stevens joins, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
While I agree with the Court as far as it goes in holding that a citation for criminal contempt and an indictment for violating a substantive criminal statute may amount to charges of the "same offence" for purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause, U. S. Const., Amdt. 5, I cannot join the Court in restricting the Clause's reach and dismembering the protection against successive prosecution that the Constitution *744 was meant to provide. The Court has read our precedents so narrowly as to leave them bereft of the principles animating that protection, and has chosen to overrule the most recent of the relevant cases, Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), decided three years ago. Because I think that Grady was correctly decided, amounting merely to an expression of just those animating principles, and because, even if the decision had been wrong in the first instance, there is no warrant for overruling it now, I respectfully dissent. I join Part I of Justice White's opinion, and I would hold, as he would, both the prosecution of Dixon and the prosecution of Foster under all the counts of the indictment against him to be barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause.[1]

I
In providing that no person shall "be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb," U. S. Const., Amdt. 5, the Double Jeopardy Clause protects against two distinct types of abuses. See North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U. S. 711, 717 (1969). It protects against being punished more than once for a single offense, or "multiple punishment." Where a person is being subjected to more than one sentence, the Double Jeopardy Clause ensures that he is n
-----------------------
scription of Harris as "treat[ing] a killing in the course of a robbery as itself a separate statutory offense, and the robbery as a species of lesser-included offense." 447 U. S., at 420. The very act of "treating" it that way was a departure from straight Blockburger analysis; it was the same departure taken by the Nielsen Court. Vitale read Harris (which itself quoted Nielsen ) to hold that even if the Blockburger test were satisfied, a second prosecution would not be permitted for conduct comprising the criminal act charged in the first. Nielsen and Harris used the word "incident," while Vitale used the word "conduct," but no matter which word is used to describe the unlawful activity for which one cannot again be forced to stand trial, the import of this successive-prosecution strand of our double jeopardy jurisprudence is clear.
Even if this had not been clear since the time of In re Nielsen, any debate should have been settled by our decision three Terms ago in Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), *758 that "the Double Jeopardy Clause bars a subsequent prosecution if, to establish an essential element of an offense charged in that prosecution, the government will prove conduct that constitutes an offense for which the defendant has already been prosecuted." Id., at 510 (footnote omitted). Grady did nothing more than apply a version of the Nielsen rule.
As against this sequence of consistent reasoning from Nielsen to Grady, the Court's citation to two cases, Gavieres  v. United States, 220 U. S. 338, 343 (1911), and Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 379-381 (1906), cannot validate its insistence that, prior to Grady, our exclusive standard for barring successive prosecutions under the Double Jeopardy Clause was the Blockburger test. See ante, at 707-708. Burton came before the Court on a demurrer. The Court there was not presented with the factual basis for the charges, and simply held that two offenses, accepting a bribe from a company and accepting the same bribe
-----------------------
).
Nor do Burton and Gavieres have the strength to justify the Court's reading of Harris solely for the narrow proposition that, in a case where a statute refers to other offenses, the elements of those offenses are incorporated by reference in the statute.[9] While reading the case this way might suffice for purposes of avoiding multiple punishment, this reading would work an unprecedented truncation of the protection afforded by the Double Jeopardy Clause against successive prosecutions, by transferring the government's leeway in determining how many offenses to create to the assessment of how many times a person may be prosecuted for the same conduct. The Double Jeopardy Clause then would provide no more protection against successive prosecutions than it provides against multiple punishments, and instead of expressing some principle underlying the protection against double jeopardy, Harris would be an anomaly, an "exceptio[n]" to Blockburger without principled justification. Grady, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 528</caseOfInterest> (Scalia, J., dissenting). By relying on that anomaly and by defining its offenses with care, the government could not merely add punishment to *761 punishment (within Eighth and Fourteenth Amendment limits), but could bring a person to trial again and again for that same conduct, violating the principle of finality, subjecting him repeatedly to all the burdens of trial, rehearsing its prosecution, and increasing the risk of erroneous conviction, all in contravention of the principles behind the protection from successive prosecutions included in the Fifth Amendment. The protection of the Double Jeopardy Clause against successive prosecutions is not so fragile that it can be avoided by finely drafted statutes and carefully planned prosecutions.

VII
I would not invite any such consequences and would here apply our successive prosecution decisions (from Nielsen to Grady ) to conclude that the prosecutions below were barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause. Dixon was prosecuted for violatin
-----------------------
n this requirement of willful violation of the order, Justice White's desire to "put to the side the CPO," because it only "triggered the court's authority" cannot be reconciled with his desire to "compar[e] the substantive offenses of which respondents stood accused." Post, at 734. The "substantive offense" of criminal contempt is willful violation of a court order. Far from a mere jurisdictional device, that order (or CPO) is the centerpiece of the entire proceeding. Its terms define the prohibited conduct, its existence supports imposition of a criminal penalty, and willful violation of it is necessary for conviction. To ignore the CPO when determining whether two offenses are the "same" is no more possible than putting aside the statutory definitions of criminal offenses. Of course, Justice White's view that the elements of criminal contempt are essentially irrelevant for double jeopardy analysis does have precedent— albeit erroneous—in Grady `s same-conduct test. Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990). Justice Souter also ignores the knowledge element. Post, at 761, n. 10.
[7]  We accept, as we ordinarily do, the construction of a District of Columbia law adopted by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. See, e. g., Pernell v. Southall Realty, 416 U. S. 363, 368-369 (1974). The construction here has sound support in the text of the statute. Compare D. C. Code Ann. § 22-501 (1989) (assault with intent to kill, rob, rape, or poison) with § 22-504 (assault).
[8]  Justice White's suggestion, post, at 737-738, that if Foster received a lesser-included-offense instruction on assault at his trial for assault with intent to kill, we would uphold a conviction on that lesser count is simply wrong. Under basic Blockburger analysis, Foster may neither be tried a second time for assault nor again convicted for assault, as we have concluded as to Count I (charging simple assault). Thus, Foster certainly does receive the "full constitutional protection to which he is entitled," post, a
-----------------------
cided that the CPO's reference to "threats" was to "legal" threats—i. e., threats as defined by the law. Moreover, I note that the Government's presentation of this case coincides with this view. See Brief for United States 26 (describing the order not to "assault or in any manner threaten" as "direct[ing] Foster . . . to refrain from engaging in criminal conduct").

In any event, even assuming that the prohibition in the court order referred to threats other than those already outlawed, that should not change the outcome of this case. The offense prohibited in the CPO—to threaten "in any manner"—at the very least is "an incident and part of," In re Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176, 187 (1889),the offense of criminal threat defined in § 22-2307. Therefore, for reasons explained below, prosecution for one should preclude subsequent prosecution for the other.
[9]  Therefore, I obviously disagree with The Chief Justice's Blockburger analysis which would require overruling not only Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest> (1990), but, as Justice Scalia explains, Harris v.Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), as well. See ante, at 698. At the very least, where conviction of the crime of contempt cannot be had without conviction of a statutory crime forbidden by court order, the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution for the latter after acquittal or conviction of the former.
[10]  Similar results follow, of course, from The Chief Justice's interpretation of the Clause.
[1]  Justice Scalia's dismissal of this concern is difficult to follow. As I understand it, he maintains that no double jeopardy problem exists because under Blockburger a conviction for assault would not be upheld. See ante, at 702, n. 7. I suppose that the judge could upon request instruct the jury on the lesser included offense and await its verdict; if it were to find Foster guilty of simple assault, the court could then vacate the conviction as violative of the Double Jeopardy Clause—or, barring that, Foster could appeal his conviction on
-----------------------
ts. It is a guarantee against being twice put to trial for the same offense." Id. , at 660-661. In light of the lesser included offense instructions, and the associated risk of conviction for that offense, Foster would have to defend himself in his second trial once more against the charge of simple assault, thereby undergoing the "personal strain, public embarrassment, and expense of a criminal trial." Id. , at 661. Even if the conviction were set aside, he still would have "been forced to endure a trial that the Double Jeopardy Clause was designed to prohibit." Id. , at 662. Indeed, I would have imagined that Justice Scalia would agree. As he recently wrote: "Since the Double Jeopardy Clause protects the defendant from being `twice put in jeopardy,' i. e., made to stand trial . . .for the `same offence,' it presupposes that sameness can be determined before the second trial. Otherwise, the Clause would have prohibited a second `conviction' or `sentence' for the same offense." Grady, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S., at 529</caseOfInterest> (dissenting opinion) (emphasis added). This double jeopardy predicament, of course, could be avoided by Foster's attorney not requesting the lesser included offense instructions to which his client is entitled.But to place a defendant before such a choice hardly strikes me as a satisfactory resolution.
[2]  Consequently, I concur in the Court's judgment with respect to Dixon's prosecution and the prosecution of Foster under Count I of the indictment against him.
[3]  For purposes of this case I need express no view on this question, whether the proscription of punishment for state-law offenses that fail the Blockburger test can somehow be overcome by a clearly shown legislative intent that they be punished separately. See Albernaz v. United States, 450 U. S. 333, 344-345 (1981) (Stewart, J., concurring in judgment).
[4]  Our cases have long made clear that the order in which one is prosecuted for two crimes alleged to be the same matters not in demonstrating a violation of double jeop
-----------------------
he State is unable to proceed on the more serious charge at the outset because the additional facts necessary to sustain that charge have not occurred or have not been discovered despite the exercise of due diligence." 432 U. S., at 169, n. 7.
[9]  It is true that in light of its decision to remand the case to provide the State further opportunity to put forward some other basis for its prosecution, the Vitale Court, appropriately, described the claim only as "substantial." The important point, however, is the way in which the Court in Vitale (and, for that matter, the dissent in that case, see 447 U. S., at 426 (opinion of Stevens, J.)) read the Harris opinion.
[10]  Indeed, at least where the common elements of the offenses themselves describe a separate criminal offense, the Court's reading of Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), is apparently inconsistent even with the historical understanding of the Clause put forward by three of the dissenters in Grady. See Grady v. Corbin, <caseOfInterest>495 U. S. 508</caseOfInterest>, 531 (1990) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (quoting 1 T. Starkie, Criminal Pleading, ch. xix, pp. 322-323 (2d ed. 1822)) ("`[I]f one charge consist of the circumstances A. B. C. and another of the circumstances A. D. E. then, if the circumstance which belongs to them in common does not of itself constitute a distinct substantive offence, an acquittal from the one charge cannot include an acquittal of the other' ") (emphasis supplied).
[11]  I agree, therefore, with Justice White that the element of knowledge of a court order is irrelevant for double jeopardy purposes. See ante, at 734 (opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part).
[]  I note that atleast the charge concerning assault with intent to kill would apparently have been barred under the approach taken in Justice Scalia's dissenting opinion in Grady. See n. 9, supra. 

