Case of interest: Bloom v. Illinois (1968)
-----------------------
41, 744. From this aspect of the Court's opinion as well, I dissent.

I
The chief issue before us is whether the Double Jeopardy Clause applies at all to cases such as these. Justice Scalia finds that it applies, but does so in conclusory fashion, without dealing adequately with either the Government's arguments or the practical consequences of today's decision. Both, in my view, are worthy of more.

A
The position of the United States is that, for the purpose of applying the Double Jeopardy Clause, a charge of criminal contempt for engaging in conduct that is proscribed by court order and that is in turn forbidden by the criminal code is an offense separate from the statutory crime. The United States begins by pointing to prior decisions of this Court to support its view. Heavy reliance is placed on In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564 (1895), but, as the majority notes, see ante, at 699, the relevant portion of the opinion is dictum—and seriously weakened dictum at that. See Bloom v. Illinois, <caseOfInterest>391 U. S. 194</caseOfInterest> (1968).
The Government also relies on two cases involving Congress' power to punish by contempt a witness who refuses to testify before it, In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661 (1897), and Jurney v. MacCracken, 294 U. S. 125 (1935). Both cases appear to lean in the Government's direction, but neither is conclusive. *722 First, the statements were dicta. The claim in Jurney and Chapman was that the power to punish for contempt and the power to punish for commission of the statutory offense could not coexist side by side. But in neither were both powers exercised; in neither case did the defendant face a realistic threat of twice being put in jeopardy. In fact, as the majority notes, ante, at 698-699, n. 2, the Court expressed doubt that consecutive prosecutions would be brought in such circumstances. See Chapman, supra, at 672.
Second, both decisions concern the power to deal with acts interfering directly with the performance of legislative functions, a power to which not all constitutional r
-----------------------
tly exercised its supervisory power to suggest that a federal court "ordinarily should first request the appropriate prosecuting authority to prosecute contempt actions, and should appoint a private prosecutor only if that request is denied." Young, 481 U. S., at 801. Just as "[i]n practice, courts can reasonably expect that the public prosecutor will accept the responsibility for prosecution," ibid., so too can the public prosecutor reasonably anticipate that the court will agree to some delay ifneeded to bring the two actions together.
Against this backdrop, the appeal of the principle of necessity loses much of its force. Ultimately, the urgency of punishing such contempt violations is no less, but by the same token no more, than that of punishing violations of criminal laws of general application—in which case, we simply do not question the defendant's right to the "protections worked out carefully over the years and deemed fundamental to our system of justice," Bloom v. Illinois, <caseOfInterest>391 U. S., at 208</caseOfInterest>, including the protection of the Double Jeopardy Clause. "Perhaps to some extent we sacrifice efficiency, expedition, and economy, but the choice . . . has been made, and retained, in the Constitution. *729 We see no sound reason in logic or policy not to apply it in the area of criminal contempt." Id., at 209.[4]
Dixon aptly illustrates these points. In that case, the motion requesting modification of the conditions of Dixon's release was filed by the Government, the same entity responsible for prosecution of the drug offense. Indeed, in so doing it relied explicitly on the defendant's indictment on the cocaine charge. 598 A. 2d 724, 728 (D. C. 1991). Logically, any problem of coordination or of advance notice of the impending prosecution for the substantive offense was at most minimal. Nor, aside from the legitimate desire to punish all  offenders swiftly, does there appear to have been any real need to hold Dixon in contempt immediately, without waiting for the second trial. By way
-----------------------
d a precedent that is barely three years old and that has proved neither unworkable nor unsound. I continue to believe that Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S. 508 (1990), was correctly decided, and that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits a subsequent criminal prosecution where the proof required to convict on the later offense would require proving conduct that constitutes an offense for which a defendant already has been prosecuted.
If this were a case involving successive prosecutions under the substantive criminal law (as was true in Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), Illinois v. Vitale, 447 U. S. 410 (1980), and Grady ), I would agree that the Double Jeopardy *742 Clause could bar the subsequent prosecution. But we are concerned here with contempt of court, a special situation. We explained in Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et Fils S. A., 481 U. S. 787 (1987):
"The fact that we have come to regard criminal contempt as `a crime in the ordinary sense,' [Bloom v. Illi- nois, <caseOfInterest>391 U. S. 194</caseOfInterest>, 201 (1968)], does not mean that any prosecution of contempt must now be considered an execution of the criminal law in which only the Executive Branch may engage. . . . That criminal procedure protections are now required in such prosecutions should not obscure the fact that these proceedings are not intended to punish conduct proscribed as harmful by the general criminal laws. Rather, they are designed to serve the limited purpose of vindicating the authority of the court. In punishing contempt, the Judiciary is sanctioning conduct that violates specific duties imposed by the court itself, arising directly from the parties' participation in judicial proceedings." Id., at 799-800.
The purpose of contempt is not to punish an offense against the community at large but rather to punish the specific offense of disobeying a court order. This Court said nearly a century ago: "[A] court, enforcing obedience to its orders by proceedings for contempt, is not executing the criminal laws of the
-----------------------
e judgment of the Court of Appeals. I concur in the judgment of the Court in Dixon and with respect to Count I in Foster,  but respectfully dissent from the disposition of the case with respect to Counts II—V in Foster. 
NOTES
[*]   Clifton S. Elgarten, Susan M. Hoffman, Susan Deller Ross, Naomi Cahn, Laura Foggan, and Catherine F. Klein filed a brief for Ayuda et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
[1]  was Commentaries *280—*285. That limitation closely followed in American courts. See United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, 34 (1812); R. Goldfarb, The Contempt Power 12-20 (1963). Federal courts had power to "inforce the observance of order," but those "implied powers" could not support common-law jurisdiction over criminal acts. Hudson, supra, at 34. In 1831, Congress amended the Judiciary Act of 1789, allowing federal courts the summary contempt power to punish generally "disobedience or resistance" to court orders. § 1, Act of March 2, 1831, 4 Stat. 487-488. See Bloom v. Illinois, <caseOfInterest>391 U. S. 194</caseOfInterest>, 202-204 (1968) (discussing evolution of federal courts' statutory contempt power).
[2]  State v. Yancy, 4 N. C. 133 (1814), it should be noted, involved what is today called summary contempt. We have not held, and do not mean by this example to decide, that the double jeopardy guarantee applies to such proceedings.
[3]  In order for the same analysis to be applicable to violation of a statute criminalizing disobedience of a lawful police order, as The Chief Justice's dissent on this point hypothesizes, see post, at 719, the statute must embrace police "orders" that "command" the noncommission of crimes— for instance, "Don't shoot that man!" It seems to us unlikely that a "police order" statute would be interpreted in this fashion, rather than as addressing new obligations imposed by lawful order of police (for example, the obligation to remain behind police lines, or to heed a command to "Freeze!"). If, however, such a statute were interpreted to cover police orders forbidding crimes
-----------------------
; Eatherton v. State, 810 P. 2d 93, 99, 104 (Wyo. 1991) (majority states that "[t]he Supreme Court did not really develop any new law in Grady with respect to successive prosecutions," while dissent concludes that Grady  requires reversal).Commentators have confirmed that Grady contributed confusion rather than certainty.See Poulin, Double Jeopardy Protectionagainst Successive Prosecutions in Complex Criminal Cases:A Model, 25 Conn. L. Rev. 95 (1992); Thomas, A Modest Proposal to Save the Double Jeopardy Clause, 69 Wash. U. L. Q. 195 (1991).
[18]  We do not address the motion to dismiss the threat counts based on collateral estoppel, see Ashe v. Swenson, supra, because neitherlower court ruled on that issue.
[19]  Justices White, Stevens, and Souter concur in this portion of the judgment.
[1]  Justice Blackmun concurs only in the judgment with respect to this portion.
[2]  Justice Scalia suggests that the dicta in those earlier cases are of limited value in light of Bloom v. Illinois, <caseOfInterest>391 U. S. 194</caseOfInterest> (1968), which held that the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial applies to nonsummary contempt prosecutions. But there is simply no reason to think that the dicta in those cases were based on the understanding that prosecutions for contempt were not subject to the Double Jeopardy Clause. Rather, the principal theme running through the pre-Grady cases is that, while nonsummary contempt is a criminal prosecution, that prosecution and the later one for a substantive offense involve two separate and distinct offenses.
[3]  The Court's discussion of the use of the contempt power at common law and in 19th-century America, see ante, at 694-695, does not undercut the relevance of these later, pre-Grady decisions—most of which are from the late 20th century—to the instant case.
[1]  Assuming, arguendo, that Justice Scalia's reading of Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U. S. 682 (1977), is accurate, and that we must look to the terms of the particular court orders involved, I believe Justice Scalia is 
