Case of interest: Continental T. v.  Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc. (1977)
-----------------------
m price fixing. Id., at 156-168. Justice Harlan pointed out that, because the majority was establishing a per se rule, the proper inquiry was "not whether dictation of maximum prices is ever illegal, but whether it is always illegal." Id.,  at 165-166. He also faulted the majority for conclusively listing "certain unfortunate consequences that maximum *13 price dictation might have in other cases," even as it rejected evidence that the publisher's practice of fixing maximum prices counteracted potentially anticompetitive actions by its distributors. Id. , at 165. Justice Stewart also dissented, asserting that the publisher's maximum price fixing scheme should be properly viewed as promoting competition, because it protected consumers from dealers such as Albrecht, who, as "the only person who could sell for home delivery the city's only daily morning newspaper," was "a monopolist within his own territory." Id., at 168.
Nine years later, in Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., <caseOfInterest>433 U. S. 36</caseOfInterest> (1977), the Court overruled Schwinn,  thereby rejecting application of a per se rule in the context of vertical nonprice restrictions. The Court acknowledged the principle of stare decisis, but explained that the need for clarification in the law justified reconsideration of Schwinn:
"Since its announcement, Schwinn has been the subject of continuing controversy and confusion, both in the scholarly journals and in the federal courts. The great weight of scholarly opinion has been critical of the decision, and a number of the federal courts confronted with analogous vertical restrictions have sought to limit its reach. In our view, the experience of the past 10 years should be brought to bear on this subject of considerable commercial importance." <caseOfInterest>433 U. S., at 47-49</caseOfInterest> (footnotes omitted).
The Court considered the historical context of Schwinn,  noting that Schwinn `s per se rule against vertical nonprice restrictions came only four years after the Court had refused to endorse a similar rule in White Motor Co., and that the decision neither explained the "sudden change in position," nor referred to the accepted requirements for per se violations set forth in Northern Pacific R. Co. <caseOfInterest>433 U. S., at </caseOfInterest>51— 52. The Court then reviewed scholarly works supporting the economic utility of vertical nonprice restraints. See <caseOfInterest>id.,</caseOfInterest> *14 at 54-57 (citing, e. g., Posner, Antitrust Policy and the Supreme Court: An Analysis of the Restricted Distribution, Horizontal Merger and Potential Competition Decisions, 75 Colum. L. Rev. 282 (1975); Preston, Restrictive Distribution Arrangements: Economic Analysis and Public Policy Standards, 30 Law & Contemp. Prob. 506 (1965)). The Court concluded that, because "departure from the rule-of-reason standard must be based upon demonstrable economic effect rather than—as in Schwinn—upon formalistic line drawing," the appropriate course would be "to return to the rule of reason that governed vertical restrictions prior to Schwinn. " GTE Sylvania, supra, at 58-59.
In GTE Sylvania, the Court declined to comment on Albrecht `s per se treatment of vertical maximum price restrictions, noting that the issue "involve[d] significantly different questions of analysis and policy." <caseOfInterest>433 U. S., at 51, n. 18</caseOfInterest>. Subsequent decisions of the Court, however, have hinted that the analytical underpinnings of Albrecht were substantially weakened by GTE Sylvania. We noted in Maricopa County that vertical restraints are generally more defensible than horizontal restraints. See 457 U. S., at 348, n. 18. And we explained in 324 Liquor Corp. v. Duffy, 479 U. S. 335, 341-342 (1987), that decisions such as GTE Sylvania "recognize the possibility that a vertical restraint imposed by a single manufacturer or wholesaler may stimulate interbrand competition even as it reduces intrabrand competition."
Most recently, in ARCO, 495 U. S. 328 (1990), although Albrecht' s continuing validity was not squarely before the Court, some disfavor with that decision was signaled by our statement that we would "assume, arguendo, that Albrecht  correctly held that vertical, maximum price fixing is subject to the per se rule." 495 U. S., at 335, n. 5. More significantly, we specifically acknowledged that vertical maximum pri
-----------------------
f market power by monopolist-dealers. Indeed, both courts and antitrust scholars have noted that Albrecht' s rule may actually harm consumers and manufacturers. See, e. g., Caribe BMW, Inc. v. Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft, 19 F. 3d 745, 753 (CA1 1994) (Breyer, C. J.); Areeda ¶ 1636a, at 395; G. Mathewson & R. Winter, Competition Policy and Vertical Exchange 13-14 (1985). Other commentators have also explained that Albrecht' s per se rule has even more potential for deleterious effect on competition after our decision in GTE Sylvania,  because, now that vertical nonprice restrictions are not unlawful per se, the likelihood of dealer monopoly power is increased. See, e. g., Easterbrook 890, n. 20; see also ARCO, 495 U. S., at 343, n. 13. We do not intend to suggest that dealers generally possess sufficient market power to exploit a monopoly situation. Such retail market power may in fact be uncommon. See, e. g., Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 727, n. 2; GTE Sylvania, <caseOfInterest>433 U. S., at 54</caseOfInterest>. Nor do we hold that a ban on vertical maximum price fixing inevitably has anticompetitive consequences in the exclusive dealer context.
After reconsidering Albrecht' s rationale and the substantial criticism the decision has received, however, we conclude that there is insufficient economic justification for per se invalidation of vertical maximum price fixing. That is so not only because it is difficult to accept the assumptions underlying Albrecht, but also because Albrecht has little or no relevance to ongoing enforcement of the Sherman Act. See Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752, 777, and n. 25 (1984). Moreover, neither the parties nor any *19 of the amici curiae have called our attention to any cases in which enforcement efforts have been directed solely against the conduct encompassed by Albrecht `s per se rule.
Respondents argue that reconsideration of Albrecht should require "persuasive, expert testimony establishing that the per se rule has distorted 
-----------------------
d contract rights, see, e. g., Payne, 501 U. S., at 828. Both of those concerns are arguably relevant in this case.
But "[s]tare decisis is not an inexorable command." Ibid.  In the area of antitrust law, there is a competing interest, well represented in this Court's decisions, in recognizing and adapting to changed circumstances and the lessons of accumulated experience. Thus, the general presumption that legislative changes should be left to Congress has less force with respect to the Sherman Act in light of the accepted view that Congress "expected the courts to give shape to the statute's broad mandate by drawing on common-law tradition." *21 National Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 688 (1978). As we have explained, the term "restraint of trade," as used in § 1, also "invokes the common law itself, and not merely the static content that the common law had assigned to the term in 1890." Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 732; see also GTE Sylvania, <caseOfInterest>433 U. S., at 53, n. 21</caseOfInterest>; McNally v. United States, 483 U. S. 350, 372-373 (1987) (Stevens, J., dissenting). Accordingly, this Court has reconsidered its decisions construing the Sherman Act when the theoretical underpinnings of those decisions are called into serious question. See, e. g., Copperweld Corp., supra, at 777; GTE Sylvania, supra, at 47-49; cf. Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141, 147 (1940).
Although we do not "lightly assume that the economic realities underlying earlier decisions have changed, or that earlier judicial perceptions of those realities were in error," we have noted that "different sorts of agreements" may amount to restraints of trade "in varying times and circumstances," and "[i]t would make no sense to create out of the single term `restraint of trade' a chronologically schizoid statute, in which a `rule of reason' evolves with new circumstances and new wisdom, but a line of per se illegality remains forever fixed where it was." Business Electronics, supra, at 731— 732. Just as Schwin
