Case of interest: Seminole Tribe of Florida v. Florida (1996)
-----------------------
eventh Amendment, which provides:
"The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State."
Though its precise terms bar only federal jurisdiction over suits brought against one State by citizens of another State or foreign state, we have long recognized that the Eleventh Amendment accomplished much more: It repudiated the central premise of Chisholm that the jurisdictional heads of Article III superseded the sovereign immunity that the States possessed before entering the Union. This has been our understanding of the Amendment since the landmark *670 case of Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1 (1890). See also Ex parte New York, 256 U.S. 490, 497-498 (1921); Principality of Monaco, supra, at 320-328, Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 465 U.S. 89, 97-98 (1984); Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, <caseOfInterest>517 U.S. 44</caseOfInterest>, 54, 66-68 (1996).
While this immunity from suit is not absolute, we have recognized only two circumstances in which an individual may sue a State. First, Congress may authorize such a suit in the exercise of its power to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment—an Amendment enacted after the Eleventh Amendment and specifically designed to alter the federalstate balance. Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U.S. 445 (1976). Second, a State may waive its sovereign immunity by consenting to suit. Clark v. Barnard, 108 U.S. 436, 447-448 (1883). This case turns on whether either of these two circumstances is present.

II
Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S. C. § 1125(a), enacted in 1946, created a private right of action against "[a]ny person" who uses false descriptions or makes false representations in commerce. The TRCA amends § 43(a) by defining "any person" to include "any State, instrumentality of a State or employee of a State or instrumentality of a State acting in his or her official capacity.
-----------------------
a Prepaid) is an arm of the State of Florida. Since 1988, it has administered a tuition prepayment program designed to provide individuals with sufficient funds to cover future college expenses. College Savings brought a patent infringement action against Florida Prepaid in United States District Court in New Jersey. That action is the subject of today's decision in Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, ante, p. 627. In addition, and in the same court, College Savings filed the instant action alleging that Florida Prepaid violated § 43(a) of the Lanham Act by making misstatements about its own tuition savings plans in its brochures and annual reports.
Florida Prepaid moved to dismiss this action on the ground that it was barred by sovereign immunity. It argued that Congress had not abrogated sovereign immunity in this case because the TRCA was enacted pursuant to Congress's powers under Article I of the Constitution and, under our decisions in Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, and Fitzpatrick, supra, Congress can abrogate state sovereign immunity only when it legislates to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment. The United States intervened to defend the constitutionality of the TRCA. Both it and College Savings argued that, under the doctrine of constructive waiver articulated in Parden v. Terminal R. Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U.S. 184 (1964), Florida Prepaid had waived its immunity from Lanham Act suits by engaging in the interstate marketing and administration of its program after the TRCA made clear that such activity would subject Florida Prepaid to suit. College Savings also argued that Congress's purported abrogation of Florida Prepaid's sovereign immunity in the TRCA *672 was effective, since it was enacted not merely pursuant to Article I but also to enforce the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The District Court rejected both of these arguments and granted Florida Prepaid's motion to dismiss. 948 F. Supp. 400 (N. J. 1996). The Court of Appeals affirmed. 131 F.3d 353 (CA3 1997). We granted certiorari. 525 U.S. 1063 (1999).

III
We turn first to the contention that Florida's sovereign immunity was validly abrogated. Our decision three Terms ago in Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, held that the power "to regulate Commerce" conferred by Article I of the Constitution gives Congress no authority to abrogate state sovereign immunity. As authority for the abrogation in the present case, petitioner relies upon § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, which we held in Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, supra, and reaffirmed in Seminole Tribe, <caseOfInterest>see 517 U.S., at 72-73</caseOfInterest>, could be used for that purpose.
Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment provides that no State shall "deprive any person of . . . property . . . without due process of law." Section 5 provides that "[t]he Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article." We made clear in City of Boerne  v. Flores, 521 U.S. 507, 516-529 (1997), that the term "enforce" is to be taken seriously—that the object of valid § 5 legislation must be the carefully delimited remediation or prevention of constitutional violations. Petitioner claims that, with respect to § 43(a) of the Lanham Act, Congress enacted the TRCA to remedy and prevent state deprivations without due process of two species of "property" rights: (1) a right to be free from a business competitor's false advertising about its own product, and (2) a more generalized right to be secure in one's business interests. Neither of these qualifies as a property right protected by the Due Process Clause.
*
-----------------------
y, Justice Breyer reiterates *688 (but only in outline form, thankfully) the now-fashionable revisionist accounts of the Eleventh Amendment set forth in other opinions in a degree of repetitive detail that has despoiled our northern woods. Compare post, at 700-701, with Atascadero, supra, at 258-302 (Brennan, J., dissenting); Welch, supra, at 504-516 (Brennan, J., dissenting); Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 76-99 (Stevens, J., dissenting); id., at 100-185 (Souter, J., dissenting). But see Alden v. Maine, post, at 760-808 (Souter, J., dissenting). The arguments recited in these sources have been soundly refuted, and the position for which they have been marshaled has been rejected by constitutional tradition and precedent as clear and conclusive, and almost as venerable, as that which consigns debate over whether Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803), was wrongly decided to forums more otherworldly than ours. See Union Gas, 491 U. S., at 33-34, 35-42 (Scalia, J., dissenting); Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, at 54-73; Alden, post, at 712-730. On this score, we think nothing further need be said except two minor observations peculiar to this case.
*689 First, Justice Breyer and the other dissenters have adopted a decidedly perverse theory of stare decisis. While finding themselves entirely unconstrained by a venerable precedent such as Hans, embedded within our legal system for over a century, see, e. g., Welch, 483 U. S., at 494, n. 27; Union Gas, supra, at 34-35 (Scalia, J., dissenting), at the same time they cling desperately to an anomalous and severely undermined decision (Parden) from the 1960's. Surely this approach to stare decisis is exactly backwards— unless, of course, one wishes to use it as a weapon rather than a guide, in which case any old approach will do. Second, while we stress that the following observation has no bearing upon our resolution of this case, we find it puzzling that Justice Breyer would choose this occasion to criticize our sovereign-immunity jurisprudence as being ungrounded in constitutional text, since the present lawsuit that he would allow to go forward—having apparently been commenced against a State (Florida) by a citizen of another State (College Savings Bank of New Jersey), 948 F. Supp., at 401-402— seems to fall foursquare within the literal text of the Eleventh Amendment: "The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State . . . ." U. S. Const., Amdt. 11 (emphasis added). See Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, at 82, n. 8 (Stevens, J., dissenting).
As for the more diffuse treatment of the subject of federalism contained in the last portion of Justice Breyer's opinion: It is alarming to learn that so many Members of this Court subscribe to a theory of federalism that rejects "the details of any particular federalist doctrine"—which it says can and should "change to reflect the Nation's changing needs"—and that puts forward as the only "unchanging goal" of federalism worth mentioning "the protection of liberty," which it believes is most directly achieved by "promoting the sharing among citizens of governmental decisionmaking *690 authority," which in turn demands (we finally come to the point) "necessary legislative flexibility" for the people's representatives in Congress. Post, at 702-703. The proposition that "the protection of liberty" is most directly achieved by "promoting the sharing among citizens of governmental decisionmaking authority" might well have dropped from the lips of Rob
-----------------------
ss' need to possess the power to condition entry into the market upon a waiver of sovereign immunity (as "necessary and proper" to the exercise of its commerce power) unusually strong, for to deny Congress that power would deny Congress the power effectively to regulate private conduct. Cf. California v. Taylor, 353 U.S. 553, 566 (1957). At the same time they make a State's need to exercise sovereign immunity unusually weak, for the State is unlikely to have to supply what private firms already supply, nor may it fairly demand special treatment, even to protect the public purse, when it does so. Neither can one easily imagine what the Constitution's Founders would have thought about the assertion of sovereign immunity in this special context. These considerations, differing in kind or degree from those that would support a general *696 congressional "abrogation" power, indicate that Parden's holding is sound, irrespective of this Court's decisions in Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, <caseOfInterest>517 U.S. 44 </caseOfInterest>(1996), and Alden v. Maine, post, p. 706.
Neither did Parden break "sharply with prior cases." Parden itself cited authority that found related "waivers" in at least roughly comparable circumstances. United States  v. California, 297 U.S. 175 (1936), for example, held that a State, "by engaging in interstate commerce by rail, has subjected itself to the commerce power," id., at 185, which amounted to a waiver of a (different though related) substantive immunity. See also Taylor, supra, at 568. Parden also relied on authority holding that States seeking necessary congressional approval for an interstate compact had, "by venturing into the [federal] realm `assume[d] the [waiver of sovereign immunity] conditions . . . attached.'" 377 U.S., at 196 (quoting Petty v. Tennessee-Missouri Bridge Comm'n, 359 U.S. 275, 281-282 (1959)). Earlier case law had found a waiver of sovereign immunity in a State's decision to bring a creditor's claim in bankruptcy. See Gardner v. New Jersey, 329 U.S. 565,
-----------------------
he consequence (loss of sovereign immunity), which, as they noted, happened in Parden. 411 U. S., at 296-297 (Marshall, J., concurring in result).
The remaining cases the majority mentions offer it no greater support. One said, "We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Congress to subject unconsenting States to suit in federal court is not confined to § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment." Welch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., 483 U.S. 468, 475 (1987). Two others also considered legislative clarity, not power. Atascadero State Hospital, supra, at 247 (Rehabilitation Act "falls far short" of clearly indicating a waiver by a State accepting funds under the Act); Edelman  v. Jordan, 415 U.S. 651, 674 (1974) (same for Social Security Act). Even Seminole Tribe carefully avoided calling Parden into question. While specifying that Congress cannot, in the exercise of its Article I powers, "abrogate unilaterally the States' immunity from <caseOfInterest>suit," 517 U.S., at 59</caseOfInterest>, it left open the scope of the term "unilaterally" by referring to Parden,  without criticism, as standing for the "unremarkable, and completely unrelated, proposition that the States may waive their sovereign <caseOfInterest>immunity," 517 U.S., at 65</caseOfInterest>. In short, except for those in today's majority, no member of this Court had ever questioned the holding of Parden that the Court today discards because it cannot find "merit in attempting to salvage any remnant of it." Ante, at 680.
*699 Parden had never been questioned because, Seminole Tribe or not, it still makes sense. The line the Court today rejects has been drawn by this Court to place States outside the ordinary dormant Commerce Clause rules when they act as "market participants." White v. Massachusetts Council of Constr. Employers, Inc., 460 U.S. 204, 206-208 (1983); Reeves, Inc. v. Stake, 447 U.S. 429, 434-439 (1980); Hughes v. Alexandria Scrap Corp., 426 U.S. 794, 804-810 (1976). And Congress has drawn this same line in the related context of foreign state sovereign immunity. 28 U.S. C. § 1605(a)(2). In doing so, Congress followed the modern trend, which "spread rapidly after the Second World War," regarding foreign state sovereign immunity. 1 Restatement (Third) of Foreig
-----------------------
Justices Stevens and Souter already have described in detail.
(1) Neither constitutional text nor the surrounding debates support Seminole Tribe's view that Congress lacks the Article I power to abrogate a State's sovereign immunity in federal-question cases (unlike diversity cases). Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 82-83, and nn. 8, 9 (Stevens, J., dissenting); id., at 142-150 (Souter, J., dissenting); cf. the majority's characterization of this argument, ante, at 687-688.
(2) The precedents that offer important legal support for the doctrine of sovereign immunity do not help the Seminole Tribe majority. They all focus upon a critically different question, namely, whether courts, acting without legislative support, can abrogate state sovereign immunity, not whether Congress, acting legislatively, can do so. See Principality of Monaco v. Mississippi, 292 U.S. 313 (1934); Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1 (1890); Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 429 (1793) (Iredell, J., dissenting); Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, at 119 (Souter, J., dissenting) ("Because no federal legislation purporting to pierce state immunity was at issue, it cannot fairly be said that Hans held state sovereign immunity to have attained some constitutional status immunizing it from abrogation").
(3) Sovereign immunity is a common-law doctrine. The new American Nation received common-law doctrines selectively, accepting some, abandoning others, and frequently modifying those it accepted in light of the new Nation's special needs and circumstances. Seminole <caseOfInterest>Tribe, supra</caseOfInterest>, at 130-142 (Souter, J., dissenting). The new Nation's federalist lodestar, dual sovereignty (of State and Nation), demanded modification of the traditional single-sovereign immunity doctrine, thereby permitting Congress to narrow or abolish state sovereign immunity where necessary.
*701 (a) Dual sovereignty undercuts the doctrine's traditional "logical and practical" justification, namely (in the words of Justice Holmes), that "there can be no legal right as against the authority that makes the law on which the right depends." Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205 U.S. 349, 353 (1907). When a State is sued for violating federal law, the "authority" that would assert the immunity, the State, is not the "authority" that made the (federal) law. This point remains true even if the Court treats sovereign immunity as a principle of natural law. Alden v. Maine, post, at 762-764 (Souter, J., dissenting).
(b) Dual sovereignty, by granting Congress the power to create substantive rights that bind Stat
-----------------------
 Parden -style conditions attached to a State's decision to engage in otherwise lawful commercial activity. Justice Breyer's second case, Welch,  overruled Parden in part, as we discuss above, and we think it quite impossible to believe that the following statement in the opinion did not "questio[n] the holding of Parden that the Court today discards," post, at 698: "We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Congress to subject unconsenting States to suit in federal court is not confined to § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment." 483 U.S., at 475. Calling what a prior case has flatly decided a "question" in need of "deciding," and (lest there be any doubt on the point) making it clear that we "intimat[e] no view" as to whether the answer given by that prior case was correct, surely was handwriting on the wall which even an inept cryptologist would recognize as spelling out the caption of today's opinion. As for Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, <caseOfInterest>517 U.S. 44 </caseOfInterest>(1996), we explain elsewhere, see infra, at 682-684, how that case was logically and practically inconsistent with Parden, even though it did not expressly overrule it. Justice Breyer realizes this well enough, or else his call for an overruling of that case, which occupies almost half of his dissent, see post, at 699-705, would be supremely irrelevant to the matter before us.
[3]  In an attempt to cast doubt on our characterization of Parden as a groundbreaking case, Justice Breyer points to three earlier decisions which allegedly demonstrate that Parden worked no major change. These cases, however, have only the most tenuous relation to Parden's actual holding—as one might suspect from the dissent's soft-pedaled description of them as "roughly comparable" and involving (in quotation marks) "`waivers.'" Post, at 696. The first two, United States v. California, 297 U.S. 175 (1936), and California v. Taylor, 353 U.S. 553 (1957), involved neither state immunity from suit nor waiver, but 
