Case of interest: Evans v. Gore (1920)
-----------------------
s v. Moscow Fire Ins. Co., 309 U.S. 624 (1940), in which this Court had heard oral argument and apparently considered the merits prior to concluding that affirmance by an equally divided Court was appropriate. The law of the case doctrine presumes a hearing on the merits. See, e. g., Quern v. Jordan, 440 U.S. 332, 347, n. 18 (1979). This case does not involve a previous consideration of the merits. Indeed, when this case previously was before us, due to absence of a quorum, we could not consider either the merits or whether to consider those merits through grant of a writ of certiorari. This fact, along with the obvious difficulty of finding other equivalent substitute forums, convinces us that Pink `s statement does not control the outcome here, that the "law of the case" doctrine does not prevent our considering both issues presented, and that we should now proceed to decide them.

III
The Court of Appeals upheld the judges' claim of tax immunity upon the authority of Evans v. Gore, <caseOfInterest>253 U.S. 245 </caseOfInterest>(1920). That case arose in 1919 when Judge Walter Evans challenged Congress' authority to include sitting federal judges within the scope of a federal income tax law that the Sixteenth Amendment had authorized a few years earlier. See Revenue Act of 1918, § 213, 40 Stat. 1065 (defining "gross income" to include judicial salaries). In Evans itself, the Court held that the Compensation Clause barred application of the tax to Evans, who had been appointed a judge before Congress enacted the <caseOfInterest>tax. 253 U.S., at 264</caseOfInterest>. A few years later, the Court extended Evans, making clear that its rationale covered not only judges appointed before Congress enacted a tax but also judges whose appointments took place after the tax had become law. See Miles v. Graham, 268 U.S. 501, 509 (1925).
Fourteen years after deciding Miles, this Court overruled Miles. O'Malley v. Woodrough, 307 U.S. 277 (1939). But, *567 as the Court of Appeals noted, this Court did not expressly overrule Evans itself. 64 F.3d, at 650. The Court of Appeals added that, if "changes in judicial doctrine" had significantly undermined Evans ` holding, this "Court itself would have overruled the case." Ibid. Noting that this case is like Evans (involving judges appointed before enactment of the tax), not like O'Malley (involving judges appointed after enactment of the tax), the Court of Appeals held that Evans controlled the outcome. 64 F.3d, at 650. Hence application of both Medicare and Social Security taxes to these pre enactment judges violated the Compensation Clause.
The Court of Appeals was correct in applying Evans to the instant case, given that "it is this Court's prerogative alone to overrule one of its precedents." State Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U.S. 3, 20 (1997); see also Rodriguez de Quijas v. Shearson/American Express, Inc., 490 U.S. 477, 484 (1989). Nonetheless, the court below, in effect, has invited us to reconsider Evans. We now overrule Evans insofar as it holds that the Compensation Clause forbids Congress to apply a generally applicable, nondiscriminatory tax to the salaries of federal judges, whether or not they were appointed before enactment of the tax.
The Court's opinion in Evans began by explaining why the Compensation Clause is constitutionally important, and we begin by reaffirming that explanation. As Evans points <caseOfInterest>out, 253 U.S., at 251-252</caseOfInterest>, the Compensation Clause, along with the Clause securing federal judges appointments "during good Behavior," U. S. Const., Art. III, § 1—the practical equivalent of life tenure—helps to guarantee what Alexander Hamilton called the "complete independence of the courts of justice." The Federalist No. 78, p. 466 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961). Hamilton thought these guarantees necessary because the Judiciary is "beyond comparison the weakest of the three" branches of Government. Id., at 465-466. It has "no influence over either the sword or the purse." Id., at 465. *568 It has "no direction either of the strength or of the wealth of the society." Ibid. It has "neither FORCE nor WILL but merely judgment." Ibid. 
Hamilton's view, and that of many other Founders, was informed by firsthand experience of the harmful consequences brought about when a King of England "made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries." The Declaration of Independence ¶ 11. And Hamilton knew that "a power over a man's subsistence amounts to a power over his will." The Federalist No. 79, at 472. For this reason, he observed, "[n]ext to permanency in office, nothing can contribute more to the independence of the judges than a fixed provision for their support." Ibid.; see also id., No. 48, at 310 (J. Madison) ("[A]s the legislative department alone has access to the pockets of the people, and has . . . full discretion . . . over the pecuniary rewards of those who fill the other departments, a dependence is thus created in the latter, which gives still greater facility to encroachments of the former").
Evans properly added that these guarantees of compensation and life tenure exist, "not to benefit the judges," but "as a limitation imposed in the public <caseOfInterest>interest." 253 U.S., at 253</caseOfInterest>. They "promote the public weal," id., at 248, in part by helping to induce "learned" men and women "to quit the lucrative pursuits" of the private sector, 1 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law *294, but more importantly by helping to secure an independence of mind and spirit necessary if judges are "to maintain that nice adjustment between individual rights and governmental powers which constitutes political liberty," W. Wilson, Constitutional Government in the United States 143 (1911).
Chief Justice John Marshall pointed out why this protection is important. A judge may have to decide "between the Government and the man whom that Government is prosecuting: between the most powerful individual in the *569 community, and the poorest and most unpopular." Proceedings and Debates of the Virginia State Convention, of 1829— 1830, p. 616 (1830). A judge's decision may affect an individual's "property, his reputation, his life, his all." Ibid. In the "exercise of these duties," the judge mu
-----------------------
 the Republic recognized the importance of these constitutional principles. See, e. g., Wilson, Lectures on Law (1791), in 1 Works of James Wilson 363 (J. Andrews ed. 1896) (stating that judges should be "completely independent" in "their salaries, and in their offices"); McKean, Debate in Pennsylvania Ratifying Convention, Dec. 11, 1787, in 2 Debates on the Federal Constitution 539 (J. Elliot ed. 1836) (the security of undiminished compensation disposes judges to be "more easy and independent"); see also 1 Kent, supra, at *294 ("[P]ermanent support" and the "tenure of their office" "is well calculated . . . to give [judges] the requisite independence"). They are no less important today than in earlier times. And the fact that we overrule Evans  does not, in our view, diminish their importance.
We also agree with Evans insofar as it holds that the Compensation Clause offers protections that extend beyond a legislative effort directly to diminish a judge's pay, say, by ordering a lower <caseOfInterest>salary. 253 U.S., at 254</caseOfInterest>. Otherwise a legislature could circumvent even the most basic Compensation Clause protection by enacting a discriminatory tax law, for example, that precisely but indirectly achieved the forbidden effect.
Nonetheless, we disagree with Evans ` application of Compensation Clause principles to the matter before it—a nondiscriminatory tax that treated judges the same way it treated other citizens. Evans' basic holding was that the *570 Compensation Clause forbids such a tax because the Clause forbids "all diminution," including "taxation," "whether for one purpose or another." Id., at 255. The Federal Circuit relied upon this holding. 64 F.3d, at 650. But, in our view, it is no longer sound law.
For one thing, the dissenters in Evans cast the majority's reasoning into doubt. Justice Holmes, joined by Justice Brandeis, wrote that the Compensation Clause offers "no reason for exonerating" a judge "from the ordinary duties of a citizen, which he shares with all others. To require a man to pay the taxes that all other men have to pay cannot possibly be made an instrument to attack his independence as a <caseOfInterest>judge." 253 U.S., at 265</caseOfInterest>. Holmes analogized the "diminution" that a tax might bring about to the burden that a state law might impose upon interstate commerce. If "there was no discrimination against such commerce the tax constituted one of the ordinary burdens of government from which parties were not exempted." Id., at 267.
For another thing, this Court's subsequent law repudiated Evans' reasoning. In 1939, 14 years after Miles extended Evans ` tax immunity to judges appointed after enactment of the tax, this Court retreated from that extension. See O'Malley, 307 U. S., at 283 (overruling Miles ). And in so doing the Court, in an opinion announced by Justice Frankfurter, adopted the reasoning of the Evans dissent. The Court said that the question was whether judges are immune "from the incidences of taxation to which everyone else within the defined classes . . . is subjected." 307 U.S., at 282. Holding that judges are not "immun[e] from sharing with their fellow citizens the material burden of the governme
-----------------------
e 1983 unconstitutional, its judgment is reversed. Insofar as that court found the application of Social Security taxes to the salaries of judges taking office before 1984 unconstitutional, its judgment is affirmed. We also affirm the Court of Appeals' determination that the 1984 salary increase received by federal judges did not cure the Compensation Clause violation. The case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered. 
Justice Stevens and Justice O'Connor took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
Justice Scalia, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
I agree with the Court that extending the Social Security tax to sitting Article III judges in 1984 violated Article III's Compensation Clause. I part paths with the Court on the issue of extending the Medicare tax to federal judges in 1983, which I think was also unconstitutional.[1]


*582 I
As an initial matter, I think the Court is right in concluding that Evans v. Gore, <caseOfInterest>253 U.S. 245 </caseOfInterest>(1920)—holding that new taxes of general applicability cannot be applied to sitting Article III judges—is no longer good law, and should be overruled. We went out of our way in O'Malley v. Woodrough, 307 U.S. 277, 280-281 (1939), to catalog criticism of Evans, and subsequently recognized, in United States v. Will, 449 U.S. 200, 227, and n. 31 (1980), that O'Malley had "undermine[d] the reasoning of Evans. " The Court's decision today simply recognizes what should be obvious: that Evans has not only been undermined, but has in fact collapsed.

II
My disagreement with the Court arises from its focus upon the issue of discrimination, which turns out to be dispositive with respect to the Medicare tax. The Court holds "that the Compensation Clause does not forbid Congress to enact a law imposing a nondiscriminatory tax . . . upon judges, whether those judges were appointed before or after the tax law in question was enacted or took effect." Ante, at 571. Since "the Medicare tax is just such
-----------------------
 the tax.) On my analysis, it would not matter if every federal employee had been made subject to the Social Security tax along with judges, so long as one of the previous entitlements of their federal employment had been exemption from that tax. Federal judges, unlike all other federal employees except the President, see Art. II, § 1, cl. 7, cannot, consistent with the Constitution, have their compensation diminished. If this case involved salary cuts to pay for Social Security, rather than taxes to pay for Social Security, the irrelevance of whether other federal employees were covered by the operative legislation would be clear.

* * *
I join in the judgment that extension of the Social Security tax to sitting Article III judges was unconstitutional. I would affirm the Federal Circuit's holding that extension of the Medicare tax was unconstitutional as well.
Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
I believe this Court was correct in Evans v. Gore, <caseOfInterest>253 U.S. 245 </caseOfInterest>(1920), when it held that any tax that reduces a judge's *587 net compensation violates Article III of the Constitution. Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals in its entirety.
NOTES
[*]   Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Federal Judges Association by Kevin M. Forde and Richard J. Prendergast; and for the Los Angeles County Bar Association et al. by Mark E. Haddad, Catherine V. Barrad, Paul J. Watford, Richard Walch, Evan A. Davis, Amitai Schwartz, Steven F. Pflaum, Richard William Austin, Barbara J. Collins, Dennis F. Kerrigan, Jr., P. Kevin Castel, Herbert H. Franks, Dennis A. Rendelman, and John J. Kenney. 
[1]  I agree with the Court, see Part II, ante, that the law-of-the-case doctrine does not bar our consideration of the merits. I also join the Court in holding, see Part V, ante, that any constitutional violation was not remedied by subsequent salary increases.
[2]  As the Court explains, the purpose of the Medicare tax extens
