Passage 1:
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.' The Circuit Court held the defence good and gave judgment against the port of Mobile. Is the ordinance a violation of the Constitution of the United States? We will not gainsay that this license tax was imposed as a revenue measure — as a means of taxing the business, and thus compelling it to aid in supporting the city government. That no revenue for state or municipal purposes can be derived from the agencies or instrumentalities of commerce, no one will contend. The question generally mooted is, how shall this end be attained? In the light of the many adjudications on the subject, the ablest jurists will admit that the line which separates the power from its abuse is sometimes very difficult to trace. No possible good could come of any attempt to collate, explain, and harmonize them. We will not attempt it. We confess ourselves unable to draw a distinction between this case and the principle involved in Osborne v. Mobile, <targetCase>16 Wall. 479</targetCase>. In that case the license levy was upheld, and we think it should be in this. Joseph v. Randolph, 71 Ala. 499."
In approaching the question thus presented, it is proper to note that the license tax in question is purely a tax on the privilege of doing the business in which the telegraph company was engaged. By the laws of Alabama in force at the time this tax was imposed, the telegraph company was required, *645 in addition, to pay taxes to the State, county, and port of Mobile, on its poles, wires, fixtures, and other property, at the same rate and to the same extent as other corporations and individuals were required to do. Besides the tax on tangible property, they were also required to pay a tax of three-quarters of one per cent on their gross receipts within the State.
The question is squarely presented to us, therefore, whether a State, as a condition of doing business within its jurisdiction, may exact a license tax from a telegraph company, a large part of whose business is th
Passage 2:
of the Constitution now in question... . The opinion of the court, delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, shows that it [the case] was carefully and fully considered by the court. And the court decided that this state law [the Maryland law under consideration in Brown v. Maryland], was a tax on imports, and the mode of imposing it, by giving it the form of a tax on the occupation of the importer, merely varied the form in which the tax was imposed, without varying the substance."
But it is urged that a portion of the telegraph company's business is internal to the State of Alabama, and therefore taxable by the State. But that fact does not remove the difficulty. The tax affects the whole business without discrimination. There are sufficient modes in which the internal business, if not already taxed in some other way, may be subjected to taxation, without the imposition of a tax which covers the entire operations of the company.
The state court relies upon the case of Osborne v. Mobile, <targetCase>16 Wall. 479</targetCase>, which brought up for consideration an ordinance of the city, requiring every express company, or railroad company doing business in that city, and having a business extending beyond the limits of the State, to pay an annual license of $500; if the business was confined within the limits of the State, the license fee was only $100; if confined within the city, it was $50; subject in each case to a penalty for neglect or refusal to pay the charge. This court held that the ordinance was not unconstitutional. This was in December term, 1872. In view of the course of decisions which have been made since that time, it is very certain that such an ordinance would now be regarded as repugnant to the power conferred upon Congress to regulate commerce among the several States.
*648 A great number and variety of cases involving the commercial power of Congress have been brought to the attention of this court during the past fifteen years which have frequently made it necessary to reëxamine the