Passage 1:
nimpeachable in the hands of a bona fide holder. In the present case, it appears that Mensing bought from the defendant $5000 of the bonds at 95 cents on the dollar, and that other $7000 of the bonds were sold by *182 the city for the same price, it thus receiving only $11,400 for $12,000 of the bonds, and suffering a discount on them of $600. The city thus agreed to pay $12,000, and interest thereon, for $11,400 borrowed. This shows the evil working of the issue of bonds for more than the amount of money borrowed.
It appears by the record that depot grounds in, and the right of way through, the city of Brenham were bought for the Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fé Railroad Company with money realized from the sale of bonds issued under the ordinance of June 7, 1879, and that $3000 of such bonds were used by the city for fire department purposes.
The power to borrow the $11,400 would not have been nugatory, unaccompanied by the power to issue negotiable bonds therefor. Merrill v. Monticello, <targetCase>138 U.S. 673</targetCase>, 687; Williams v. Davidson, 43 Texas, 1, 33, 34; City of Cleburne v. Railroad Company, 66 Texas, 461; 1 Dillon on Municipal Corp. 4th ed. § 89, and notes; § 91, n. 2; § 126, n. 1; §§ 507, 507 a.
The confining of the power in the present case to a borrowing of money for general purposes on the credit of the city, limits it to the power to borrow money for ordinary governmental purposes, such as are generally carried out with revenues derived from taxation; and the presumption is that the grant of the power was intended to confer the right to borrow money in anticipation of the receipt of revenue taxes, and not to plunge the municipal corporation into a debt on which interest must be paid at the rate of ten per centum per annum, semi-annually, for at least ten years. It is easy for the legislature to confer upon a municipality, when it is constitutional to do so, the power to issue negotiable bonds; and, under the well-settled rule that any doubt as to the existence of such power ought
Passage 2:
nion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Lamar, the cases of Claiborne County v. Brooks and of Kelley v. Milan were cited and approved.
In Hill v. Memphis, 134 U.S. 198, 203, the opinion of the court being delivered by Mr. Justice Field, it was held that the power conferred by a statute on a municipal corporation to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company did not include the power to issue negotiable bonds representing a debt, in order to pay for that subscription; and it was said that that rule was well settled. It was added: "The inability of municipal corporations to issue negotiable paper for their indebtedness, however incurred, unless authority for that purpose is expressly given or necessarily implied for the execution of other express powers, has been affirmed in repeated decisions of this court;" and the cases of Police Jury v. Britton, *186 Claiborne County v. Brooks, Kelley v. Milan and Young v. Clarendon Township were cited with approval.
In Merrill v. Monticello, <targetCase>138 U.S. 673</targetCase>, 687, 691, it was held that the implied power of a municipal corporation to borrow money to enable it to execute the powers expressly conferred upon it by law, if existing at all, did not authorize it to create and issue negotiable securities to be sold in the market and to be taken by the purchaser freed from the equities that might be set up by the maker; and that to borrow money, and to give a bond or obligation therefor which might circulate in the market as a negotiable security, freed from any equities that might be set up by the maker of it, were essentially different transactions in their nature and legal effect. In the opinion of the court, which was delivered by Mr. Justice Lamar, the cases of Police Jury v. Britton, Claiborne County v. Brooks, Kelley v. Milan, Young v. Clarendon Township and Hill v. Memphis were cited with approval. It was added: "It is admitted that the power to borrow money, or to incur indebtedness, carries with it the power to issue the usual evidences
Passage 3:
y "after the expiration of ten years from date hereof." The officers of the city had no power to depart from the terms of the ordinance by varying the time limited for redemption.
We see nothing in the provisions of the constitution of Texas of 1876, before cited, to aid the power of the city to issue these negotiable bonds.
We cannot regard the provision in the charter of the city, that bonds of the corporation of the city "shall not be subject to tax under this act," as recognizing the validity of the bonds in question. Whatever that provision may mean, it cannot include bonds unlawfully issued.
As there was no authority to issue the bonds, even a bona fide holder of them cannot have a right to recover upon them or their coupons. Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676; East Oakland v. Skinner, 94 U.S. 255; Buchanan v. Litchfield, 102 U.S. 278; Hayes v. Holly Springs, 114 U.S. 120; Daviess County v. Dickinson, 117 U.S. 657; Hopper v. Covington, 118 U.S. 148, 151; Merrill v. Monticello, <targetCase>138 U.S. 673</targetCase>, 681, 682.
As the action here is directly upon the coupons, and there is no right of recovery upon them, the judgment must be
*189 Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court, with a direction to sustain the defendant's general demurrer and special demurrer and exceptions to the plaintiff's original petition, and to sustain the special exceptions and demurrers of the defendant to the plaintiff's supplemental petition, and to enter judgment thereon in favor of the defendant and dismissing both of said petitions, with a general judgment for the defendant. [See p. 549, post.]
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and myself being unable to concur in the opinion just rendered, the grounds of our dissent will be stated.
The charter of the city of Brenham, granted in 1873, provided that "the city council shall have the power and authority to borrow, for general purposes, not exceeding fift
Passage 4:
distinct and different." Mr. Justice Miller, *191 in a separate dissenting opinion, called attention to the fact that the Supreme Court of Iowa had then recently held the bonds, involved in that suit, to be void, upon the ground that the transaction "was a loan of credit, and not a borrowing of money." The principle announced in Rogers v. Burlington was applied in Mitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270.
The cases, decided since Rogers v. Burlington, which have been cited, in the opinion of the court, as announcing the doctrine that an express power given to a municipal corporation to borrow money does not authorize the execution of negotiable instruments for the money so borrowed, are: Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 570, 572; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U.S. 400, 406; Concord v. Robinson, 121 U.S. 165, 167; Kelley v. Milan, 127 U.S. 139, 150; Norton v. Dyersburg, 127 U.S. 160, 175; Young v. Clarendon, 132 U.S. 340; Hill v. Memphis, 134 U.S. 198, 203; and Merrill v. Monticello, <targetCase>138 U.S. 673</targetCase>, 686, 687.
In Police Jury v. Britton, it appeared that a police jury, in a parish of Louisiana, charged with the supervision and repair of roads, bridges, causeways, dikes, levees and other highways, was prohibited by statute from contracting any debt or pecuniary liability without fully providing in the ordinance creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of the debt so contracted. And the question arose as to whether it could rightfully issue negotiable bonds to take the place of certain orders previously given by it for work done on levees in the parish. The case involved no question as to the scope and effect of an express power in the parish to borrow money. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, after observing that the police jury had no express authority to issue bonds, and that, if it existed, it must be implied from the general powers of local administration with which they were invested, said: "We have, therefore, the question directly presented