Passage 1:
to be used but also subject to any restrictions or conditions as to use or royalty which the company which authorized its sale may see fit, after the sale, from time to time to impose. The perfect instrument of favoritism and oppression which such a system of doing business, if valid, would put into the control of the owner of such a patent should make courts astute, if need be, to defeat its operation. If these restrictions were sustained plainly the plaintiff might, for its own profit or that of its favorites, by the obviously simple expedient of varying its royalty charge, ruin anyone unfortunate enough to be dependent upon its confessedly important improvements for the doing of business.
Through the twenty years since the decision in the Button-Fastener Case was announced there have not been wanting courts and judges who have dissented from its conclusions, as is sufficiently shown in the division of this court when the question involved first came before it in Henry v. Dick Co., <targetCase>224 U.S. 1</targetCase>, and in the disposition shown not to extend the doctrine in Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U.S. 1.
The exclusive right to "vend" a patented article is derived from the same clause of the section of the statute which gives the exclusive right to "use" such an article *516 and following the decision of the Button-Fastener Case, it was widely contended as obviously sound, that the right existed in the owner of a patent to fix a price at which the patented article might be sold and resold under penalty of patent infringement. But this court, when the question came before it in Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U.S. 1, rejecting plausible argument and adhering to the language of the statute from which all patent right is derived, refused to give such a construction to the act of Congress, and decided that the owner of a patent is not authorized by either the letter or the purpose of the law to fix, by notice, the price at which a patented article must be sold after the first sale of it, declaring that the
Passage 2:
ld occasion forbid it.
It is argued as a merit of this system of sale under a *517 license notice that the public is benefited by the sale of the machine at what is practically its cost and by the fact that the owner of the patent makes its entire profit from the sale of the supplies with which it is operated. This fact, if it be a fact, instead of commending, is the clearest possible condemnation of, the practice adopted, for it proves that under color of its patent the owner intends to and does derive its profit, not from the invention on which the law gives it a monopoly but from the unpatented supplies with which it is used and which are wholly without the scope of the patent monopoly, thus in effect extending the power to the owner of the patent to fix the price to the public of the unpatented supplies as effectively as he may fix the price on the patented machine.
We are confirmed in the conclusion which we are announcing by the fact that since the decision of Henry v. Dick Co., <targetCase>224 U.S. 1</targetCase>, the Congress of the United States, the source of all rights under patents, as if in response to that decision, has enacted a law making it unlawful for any person engaged in interstate commerce "to lease or make a sale or contract for sale of goods . . . machinery, supplies or other commodities, whether patented or unpatented, for use, consumption or resale . . . or fix a price charged therefor . . . on the condition, agreement or understanding that the lessee or purchaser thereof shall not use. . . the goods . . . machinery, supplies or other commodities of a competitor or competitors of the lessor or seller, where the effect of such lease, sale, or contract for sale or such condition, agreement or understanding may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce." 38 Stat. 730.
Our conclusion renders it unnecessary to make the application of this statute to the case at bar which the Circuit Court of Appeals made of it but it must be accepted by us as a most persuasive expression of the public *518 policy of our country with respect to the question before us.
It is obvious that the conclusions arrived at in this opinion are such that the decision in Henry v. Dick Co., <targetCase>224 U.S. 1</targetCase>, must be regarded as overruled.
Coming now to the terms of the notice attached to the machine sold to the Seventy-second Street Amusement Company under the license of the plaintiff and to the first question as we have stated it.
This notice first provides that the machine, which was sold to and paid for by the Amusement Company may be used only with moving picture films containing the invention of reissued patent No. 12, 192, so long as the plaintiff continues to own this reissued patent.
Such a restriction is invalid because such a film is obviously not any part of the invention of the patent in suit; because it is an attempt, without statutory warrant, to continue the patent monopoly in this particular character of film after it has expired, and because to enforce it would be to create a monopoly in the manufacture and use of moving picture films, wholly outside of the patent in suit and of the patent law as we have interpreted it.
The notice further provides that the machine shall
Passage 3:
films, I cannot see in allowing him the right to do so anything more than an ordinary incident of ownership, or at most, a consequence of the Paper Bag Case, on which, as it seems to me, this case ought to turn. See Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 242.
Not only do I believe that the rule that I advocate is right under the Paper Bag Case, but I think that it has become a rule of property that law and justice require to be retained. For fifteen years, at least since Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U.S. 70, 88-93, if not considerably earlier, the public has been encouraged by this court to believe that the law is as it was laid down in Heaton-Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 288, 25 C.C.A. 267, and numerous other decisions of the lower courts. I believe that many and important transactions have taken place on the faith of those decisions, and that for that reason as well as for the first that I have given, the rule last announced in Henry v. Dick Co., <targetCase>224 U.S. 1</targetCase>, should be maintained.
I will add for its bearing upon Straus v. Victor Talking *521 Machine Co., ante, 490, that a conditional sale retaining the title until a future event after delivery, has been decided to be lawful again and again by this court. Bailey v. Baker Ice Machine Co., 239 U.S. 268, 272. I confine myself to expressing my views upon the general and important questions upon which I have the misfortune to differ from the majority of the court. I leave on one side the question of the effect of the Clayton Act, as the court has done, and also what I might think if the Paper Bag Case were not upheld, or if the question were upon the effect of a combination of patents such as to be contrary to the policy that I am bound to accept from the Congress of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER concur in this dissent.