Passage 1:
ired homes in city suburbs and nearby towns in reliance upon this action of the carriers in fixing special rates and furnishing particular accommodations suitable to the traffic. This fact has been recognized by the courts of the country, by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and quite generally by the railroad commissions of the States.[1]
The question of the power of the Public Service Commission of the State of New York in this respect was before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of *13 that State in People ex rel. New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 159 App. Div. Rep., Supreme Court, 531. In that case it was said:
"Subdivision 4 of section 33 of the Public Service Commissions Law (Consol. Laws, chap. 48 [Laws of 1910, chap. 480], as amd. by Laws of 1911, chap. 546) empowers the Commission to fix reasonable and just rates for such service. It is urged, however, that the statute is invalid under the rule of Lake Shore &c. R. Co. v. Smith (<targetCase>173 U.S. 684</targetCase>). In that case the statutes of Michigan had fixed a maximum passenger rate at three cents per mile. A subsequent enactment required the issuing of mileage books for 1,000 miles, good for two years, at a less rate. The court held that having fixed a uniform maximum rate as to all passengers, such rate was the reasonable compensation for the service, and that the fixing of a less rate to particular individuals was an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of legislative power; that it was not for the convenience of the public and thus within the police power, but was for the convenience of certain individuals who were permitted to travel upon the railroads for less than the reasonable rate prescribed by law; that the law was, therefore, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution in depriving the company of its property without due process of law and by depriving it of the equal protection of the laws.
"In Beardsley v. N.Y., L.E. & W.R.R. Co. (162 N.Y. 230) the Cou
Passage 2:
iffering character of the several kinds of tickets. It seems to be settled under that section that a carrier may enter upon the policy and practice of issuing mileage books and excursion tickets at less than its regular normal fare for the one-way journey, and, having adopted such a policy, may subsequently withdraw from it and refuse longer to issue such tickets. That has been the view of this Commission, and is the view generally entertained, although there may be exceptional circumstances where a different conclusion would be required. It by no means follows, however, that a carrier under section 22 may exercise the same scope and freedom of action with respect to commutation tickets."
The reasoning of these decisions is sound and involves no violation of the Federal Constitution. True it is that it may not be possible to reconcile these views with all that is said in the opinion delivered for the majority of the court in the case of Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v. Smith, <targetCase>supra</targetCase>. The views therein expressed which are inconsistent with the right of the States to fix reasonable commutation fares when the carrier has itself established fares for such service, must be regarded as overruled by the decision in this case.
We find no error in the decree of the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and the same is
Affirmed.
Dissenting: THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.
NOTES
[1]   Forty-fourth Annual Report of the Railroad Commission for the year 1912 (Mass.), pp. 67, 107, 113; P.U.R. 1915B (Mass.), p. 362; P.U.R. 1915E (R.I.), p. 269; Public Service Commission Reports, Second District of N.Y. (New York), Vol. III, pp. 212, 461; idem, Vol. IV, p. 11; P.U.R. 1915B (N.J.), p. 161; Public Utilities Commission Reports, 1914 (Ill.), Vol. I, pp. 553, 590; Public Utilities Commission Reports, 1913-1914 (Colo.), p. 131; P.U.R. 1915D (Idaho), p. 742; Opinions and Orders of the Railroad Commission (Cal.), Vol. I, pp. 451, 855; idem, Vol. II, p. 910; ide