Passage 1:
itutional interference with the business of the carrier, the effect of which was to violate the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution by depriving the railroad company of its propery without due process of law and denying to it the equal protection of the law.
The Lake Shore Case did not involve, as does the present one, the power of a state commission to fix intrastate rates for commutation tickets where such rates had already been put in force by the railroad company of its own volition, and we confine ourselves to the precise question presented in this case, which involves the supervision of commutation rates when rates of that character have been voluntarily established by the carrier. The rates here involved are wholly intrastate. The power of the States to fix reasonable intrastate rates is too well settled at this time to need further discussion or a citation of authority to support it.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R.R. Co., <targetCase>145 U.S. 263</targetCase>, this court held that a "party rate ticket" for the transportation of ten or more persons at a less rate than that charged a single individual did not make a discrimination against an individual charged more for the same service, or amount to an unjust or unreasonable discrimination within the meaning of the Act to Regulate Commerce. In the course of the opinion the *11 right to issue tickets at reduced rates good for limited periods upon the principle of commutation was fully recognized. See pp. 277, 278, 279, 280.
Having the conceded authority to regulate intrastate rates, we perceive no reason why such power may not be exercised through duly authorized commissions and rates fixed with reference to the particular character of the service to be rendered.
In Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U.S. 605, 608, after making reference to Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U.S. 585, this court said:
"It was recognized [in the North Dakota Case] that the State has a b