Passage 1:
ect to state taxation (Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,) 117 U.S. 151, but the property of individual owners, although derived from the United States under its public land laws, may be taxed. The power to tax exists as soon as the ownership is changed. Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, 219. *129 Though the legal title remains in the Government, if the proceedings have reached the point where nothing more remains to be done by the entryman and the Government no longer has any beneficial interest in the land and does not exclude the entryman from the use of it, he is regarded as the beneficial owner and the land as subject to taxation. Bothwell v. Bingham County, 237 U.S. 642, 647.[1] Again, the possessory right of a qualified locator after discovery of minerals is a property right in the full sense, unaffected by the fact that the paramount title to the land is in the United States, and such interest from early times has been held to be vendible, inheritable, and taxable. Forbes v. Gracey, <targetCase>94 U.S. 762</targetCase>, 766, 767; Elder v. Wood, 208 U.S. 226, 232; Union Oil Co., v. Smith, 249 U.S. 337, 349; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U.S. 219, 231.[2] It is thus apparent that the mere fact that a property right is created by statute to fulfil a governmental purpose does not make it nontaxable when it is held in private ownership and exercised for private advantage. See Susquehanna Power Co., v. State Tax Commission (No. 1,) 283 U.S. 291, 297.
*130 We are of the opinion that no controlling distinction can be based, in the case of copyrights, upon the character of the right granted. The argument that it is in the nature of a franchise or privilege bestowed by the Government, is met by the fact that it is not a franchise or privilege to be exercised on behalf of the Government or in performing a function of the Government. The `mining claim' above mentioned, or the possessory right to explore and work a mine under the applicable Federal laws and regulations, may also be regarded as a franchise or privilege, but the Court found the right to be none the less taxable, observing in Forbes v. <targetCase>Gracey, supra</targetCase>, that "those claims are the subject of bargain and sale and constitute very largely the wealth of the Pacific coast States." Copyright is a right exercised by the owner during the term at his pleasure and exclusively for his own profit and forms the basis for extensive and profitable business enterprises. The advantage to the public is gained merely from the carrying out of the general policy in making such grants and not from any direct interest which the Government has in the use of the property which is the subject of the grants. After the copyright has been granted the Government has no interest in any action under it save the general one that its laws shall be obeyed. Operations of the owner in multiplying copies, in sales, in performances or exhibitions, or in licensing others for such purposes, are manifestly not the operations of the Government. A tax upon the gains derived from such operations is not a tax upon the exertion of any governmental function.
In Gillespie v. Oklaho