Passage 1:
lm Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U.S. 123; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra, 149; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U.S. 376, and the only possible basis for implying a constitutional immunity from state income tax of the salary of an employee of the national government or of a governmental agency is that the economic burden of the tax is in some way passed on so as to impose a burden on the national government tantamount to an interference by one government with the other in the performance of its functions.
In the four cases in which this Court has held that the salary of an officer or employee of one government or its instrumentality was immune from taxation by the other, it was assumed, without discussion, that the immunity of a government or its instrumentality extends to the salaries of its officers and employees.[2] This assumption made with respect to the salary of a governmental officer *482 in Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435, and in Collector v. Day, <targetCase>11 Wall. 113</targetCase>, was later extended to confer immunity on income derived by a lessee from lands leased to him by a government in the performance of a governmental function, Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U.S. 501; Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393, and cases cited, although the claim of a like exemption from tax on the income of a contractor engaged in carrying out a governmental project was rejected both in the case of a contractor with a state, Metcalf & Eddy v. *483 Mitchell, supra, and of a contractor with the national government, James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra.
The ultimate repudiation in Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., supra, of the doctrine that a tax on the income of a lessee derived from a lease of government owned or controlled lands is a forbidden interference with the activities of the government concerned led to the reexamination by this Court, in the Gerhardt case, of the theory underlying the asserted immunity from taxation by one government of salaries of employ
Passage 2:
nt itself, we cannot say that the present tax on the income of its employees lays any unconstitutional burden upon it. All the reasons for refusing to imply a constitutional prohibition of federal income taxation of salaries of state employees, stated at length in the Gerhardt case, are of equal force when immunity is claimed from state income tax on salaries paid by the national government or its agencies. In this respect we perceive no basis for a difference in result whether the taxed income be salary or some other form of compensation, or whether the taxpayer be an employee or an officer of either a state or the national government, or of its instrumentalities. In no case is there basis for the assumption that any such tangible or certain economic burden is imposed on the government concerned as would justify a court's declaring that the taxpayer is clothed with the implied constitutional tax immunity of the government by which he is employed. That assumption, made in Collector v. <targetCase>Day, supra</targetCase>, and in New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, is contrary to the reasoning and to the conclusions reached in the Gerhardt case and in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra; Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U.S. 279; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., supra; McLoughlin v. Commissioner, 303 U.S. 218. In their light the assumption can no longer be made. Collector v. <targetCase>Day, supra</targetCase>, and New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, are overruled so far as they recognize an implied constitutional immunity from income taxation of the salaries of officers or employees of the national or a state government or their instrumentalities.
*487 So much of the burden of a non-discriminatory general tax upon the incomes of employees of a government, state or national, as may be passed on economically to that government, through the effect of the tax on the price level of labor or materials, is but the normal incident of the organization within the same territory of two governments, each possessing the taxing power. The burden, so far as it can be said to exist or to affect the government in any indirect or incidental way, is one which the Constitution presupposes, and hence it cannot rightly be deemed to be within an implied restriction upon the taxing power of the national and state governments which the Constitution has expressly granted to one and has confirmed to the other.
Passage 3:
. 431. This dictum was treated as though it were a constitutional mandate. But not without protest. One of the most trenchant minds on the Marshall court, Justice William Johnson, early analyzed the dangerous inroads upon the political freedom of the States and the Union within their respective orbits resulting from a doctrinaire application of the generalities uttered in the course of the opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland.[3] The seductive cliche that the power to tax involves the power to destroy was fused with another assumption, likewise not to be found in the Constitution itself, namely the doctrine that the immunities are correlative — because the existence of the national government implies immunities from state taxation, the existence of state governments implies equivalent immunities from federal taxation. When this doctrine was first applied Mr. Justice Bradley registered a powerful dissent,[4] the force of which gathered rather than lost strength with time. Collector v. Day, <targetCase>11 Wall. 113</targetCase>, 128.
*490 All these doctrines of intergovernmental immunity have until recently been moving in the realm of what Lincoln called "pernicious abstractions." The web of unreality spun from Marshall's famous dictum was brushed away by one stroke of Mr. Justice Holmes's pen: "The power to tax is not the power to destroy while this Court sits." Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218, 223 (dissent). Failure to exempt public functionaries from the universal duties of citizenship to pay for the costs of government was hypothetically transmuted into hostile action of one government against the other. A succession of decisions thereby withdrew from the taxing power of the States and Nation a very considerable range of wealth without regard to the actual workings of our federalism,[5] and this, too, when the financial needs of all governments began steadily to mount. These decisions have encountered increasing dissent.[6] In view of the powerful pull of our decisions upon the courts char
Passage 4:
e same legal issues as does our Constitution[8] — have completely rejected the doctrine of intergovernmental immunity.[9] In this Court dissents have gradually become majority opinions, and even before the present decision the rationale of the doctrine had been undermined.[10]
The judicial history of this doctrine of immunity is a striking illustration of an occasional tendency to encrust unwarranted interpretations upon the Constitution and thereafter to consider merely what has been judicially said about the Constitution, rather than to be primarily controlled by a fair conception of the Constitution. Judicial exegesis is unavoidable with reference to an organic act like our Constitution, drawn in many particulars with purposed vagueness so as to leave room for the unfolding future. But the ultimate touchstone of constitutionality is the Constitution itself and not what we *492 have said about it.[11] Neither Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, and its offspring, nor Collector v. <targetCase>Day, supra</targetCase>, and its, can stand appeal to the Constitution and its historic purposes. Since both are the starting points of an interdependent doctrine, both should be, as I assume them to be, overruled this day. Whether Congress may, by express legislation, relieve its functionaries from their civic obligations to pay for the benefits of the State governments under which they live is matter for another day.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and I are of opinion that the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, being an instrumentality of the United States heretofore deemed immune from state taxation, "it necessarily results," as held in New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves (1937) 299 U.S. 401, "that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune"; and that the judgment of the state court, unquestionably required by that decision, should be affirmed.
From the decision just announced, it is clear that the Court has overruled Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County (1842) 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day (1871) <targetCase>11 Wall. 113</targetCase>; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, and Brush v. Commissioner (1937) 300 U.S. 352. Thus now it appears that the United States has always had power to tax salaries of state officers and employees and that *493 similarly free have been the States to tax salaries of officers and employees of the United States. The compensation for past as well as for future service to be taxed and the rates prescribed in the exertion of the newly disclosed power depend on legislative discretion not subject to judicial revision. Futile indeed are the vague intimations that this Court may protect against excessive or destructive taxation. Where the power to tax exists, legislatures may exert it to destroy, to discourage, to protect or exclusively for the purpose of raising revenue. See e. g. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; McCray v. United States, 195 U.S. 27, 53 et seq.; Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U.S. 40, 44 et seq.; Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States, 301 U.S. 308.
Appraisal of lurkin
Passage 5:
1, 14; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Brothers, 303 U.S. 177, 184-185; Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, ante, p. 346. As to the implications from Congressional silence in the field of state taxation of interstate commerce and its instrumentalities, see Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U.S. 250; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U.S. 434.
[2]   In Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435, a Pennsylvania tax, nominally laid upon the office of the captain of a federal revenue cutter, but roughly measured by the salary paid to the officer, was held invalid. The Court seems to have rested its decision in part on the ground that a tax on the emoluments of his office was the equivalent of a tax upon an activity of the national government, and in part on the ground that it was an infringement of the implied superior power of Congress to fix the compensation of government employees without diminution by state taxation.

In Collector v. Day, <targetCase>11 Wall. 113</targetCase>, this Court held that the salary of a state probate judge was constitutionally immune from federal income tax on the grounds that the salary of an officer of a state is exempt from federal taxation if the function he performs as an officer is exempt, citing Dobbins v. Commissioners, supra, and that there was an implied constitutional restriction upon the power of the national government to tax a state in the exercise of those functions which were essential to the maintenance of state governments as they were organized at the time when the Constitution was adopted. The possibility that a non-discriminatory tax upon the income of a state officer did not involve any substantial interference with the functioning of the state government was not discussed either in this or the Dobbins case.
In New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U.S. 401, the question was whether the salary of the general counsel of the Panama Rail Road Company was exempt from state income tax because the railroad compan
Passage 6:
s (1915), p. 203.
[1]   The state of the docket of the High Court of Australia and that of the Supreme Court of Canada still permits them to continue the classic practice of seriatim opinions.
[2]   Article 1, § 10, U.S. Constitution.
[3]   Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 472-73.
[4]   "I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, because, it seems to me that the general government has the same power of taxing the income of officers of the State governments as it has of taxing that of its own officers. . . . In my judgment, the limitation of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present decision establishes, will be found very difficult of control. Where are we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State governments which will be interfered with by Federal taxation? . . . How can we now tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but regard it as founded on a fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous consequences." (<targetCase>11 Wall. 113</targetCase>, 128-29.)
[5]   E.g., Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U.S. 501; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218; Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U.S. 620; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 570; Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393; N.Y. ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U.S. 401; Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 352.
[6]   E.g., Mr. Justice Brandeis, dissenting, in Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U.S. 609, 615; Mr. Justice Holmes, dissenting, in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218, 222; Mr. Justice Stone, dissenting, in Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 570, 580; Mr. Justice Roberts, dissenting, in Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 352, 374. See, also, Mr. Justice Black, concurring, in Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U.S. 405, 424.
[7]   Bank of Toronto v. Lambe, 12 App. Cas. 575; D'Emden v. Pedder, 1 C.L.R. 91.
[8]   Especially is this true of the Australian Constitution. One of its framers, who afterwards became one of the most distinguished of Aust