Passage 1:
lary as a circuit judge in his "gross income" must be judged on the basis of the validity of ยง 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, and not as though that power had been originally asserted by the Revenue Act of 1936. For it was the Act of June 6, 1932 that gave notice to all judges thereafter to be appointed, of the new Congressional policy to include the judicial salaries of such judges in the assessment of income taxes. The fact that Judge Woodrough before he became a circuit judge and prior to June 6, 1932, had been a district judge *280 is wholly irrelevant to the matter in issue. The two offices have different statutory origins, are filled by separate nominations and confirmations, and enjoy different emoluments. A new appointee to a circuit court of appeals occupies a new office no less when he is taken from the district bench than when he is drawn from the bar.
By means of ยง 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, Congress sought to avoid, at least in part, the consequences of Evans v. Gore, <targetCase>253 U.S. 245</targetCase>. That case, decided on June 1, 1920, ruled for the first time that a provision requiring the compensation received by the judges of the United States to be included in the "gross income" from which the net income is to be computed, although merely part of a taxing measure of general, non-discriminatory application to all earners of incomes, is contrary to Article III, ยง 1, of the Constitution which provides that the "Compensation" of the "Judges" "shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office." See also the separate opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U.S. 429, 586, 604 et seq. To be sure, in a letter to Secretary Chase, Chief Justice Taney expressed similar views.[1] In doing so, he merely gave his extra-judicial opinion, asserting at the same time that the question could not be adjudicated.[2] Chief Justice Taney's vigorous views were shared by Attorney General Hoar.[3] Thereafter, both the Treasury Department[4] and Congress[5]*281
Passage 2:
e without question by the Treasury. And, upon reargument of the cause, Attorney General Olney said in his brief: "There has never been a doubt since the opinion of Attorney General Hoar that the salaries of the President and judges were exempt."
The Revenue Acts of 1913[11] and 1916,[12] being the first two after adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, expressly *291 excluded from gross income the compensation of judges then in office. But after this country engaged in the World War, the Revenue Act of 1918, approved February 24, 1919, defined gross income to include "in the case of the President . . . [and] the judges of the Supreme and inferior courts . . . the compensation received as such."[13] The reports of the congressional committees having the measure in charge indicate that the Congress was in doubt as to the constitutional validity of that provision and intended to have the question decided by the courts.[14] The question was raised and presented for decision in Evans v. Gore, <targetCase>253 U.S. 245</targetCase>. The Collector included the salary for 1918 of Judge Evans, appointed before enactment of the taxing statute, in gross income. Had it been excluded, he would have had no taxable income. He paid the tax and brought suit to recover the amount so exacted. The United States district court for the western district of Kentucky held him not entitled to recover. But, after argument by eminent counsel including the Solicitor General, this Court held that the clause declaring that compensation of judges "shall not be diminished during their continuance in office" prevents diminution by taxation and that it has been so construed in the actual practice of the government.
For the purpose of disclosing the reasons for and true meaning of the clause forbidding diminution of compensation of judges, the opinion of the Court, written by Mr. Justice Van Devanter, brought forward statements of Alexander Hamilton, Chief Justice Marshall, Justice Story, Chancellor Kent, Chief Justice Taney, Justice Field,