Passage 1:
ion sua sponte.[3] It sustained the Commission's action on the merits and dismissed the bill. Here, the Government urges that under the doctrine of "negative orders" the Commission's order was not reviewable, but, in the alternative, supports the decree on the merits.
The relation of action by the Federal Communications Commission to the reviewing power of the courts is here *129 for the first time. The jurisdictional objection raised by the Government in this case implicates other federal regulatory bodies as well, because the various statutory schemes for judicial review have either been carried over from the Urgent Deficiencies Act, pertaining to orders under the Acts to Regulate Commerce, or because different statutory provisions have by analogy been assimilated to the "negative order" doctrine. That doctrine has not had wholly plain sailing in the many cases, both here and in the lower federal courts, since it first got under way in 1912, in Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, <targetCase>225 U.S. 282</targetCase>.
The important procedural problems with which this case is entangled therefore call for clarification.
The prior decisions involving the "negative order" doctrine fall into three categories:[4]
(1) Where the action sought to be reviewed may have the effect of forbidding or compelling conduct on the part of the person seeking to review it, but only if some further action is taken by the Commission. Such a situation is presented by an attempt to review a valuation made by the Interstate Commerce Commission which has no immediate legal effect although it may be the basis of a subsequent rate order.
(2) Where the action sought to be reviewed declines to relieve the complainant from a statutory command forbidding or compelling conduct on his part. The most obvious case is a denial of permission by the Interstate Commerce Commission for a departure from the long-short haul clause.
*130 (3) Where the action sought to be reviewed does not forbid or compel conduct on the part of the person see
Passage 2:
sion's final say-so. Such an analysis emerges from a long sequence of cases under the Urgent Deficiencies Act viewed in the setting of general doctrines of federal jurisdiction. On the other hand, the result in the Lehigh Valley case was reached in the earlier phases of modern administrative law and did not deal with its specific jurisdictional problems in the perspective of underlying principles governing federal equitable jurisdiction. In consequence, the phrase "negative orders" gained currency as though it were descriptive of some technical doctrine of jurisdiction having peculiar relevance to judicial review of orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and comparable regulatory bodies.[12]
*135 This brings us to the cases in group (3). Here review is sought of action by the Commission which affects the complainant because it does not forbid or compel conduct with reference to him by a third person. This type of situation is illustrated by Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, <targetCase>225 U.S. 282</targetCase>. Since this case gave rise to the notion that there is a specialized jurisdictional doctrine pertaining to "negative orders," it calls for re-examination. Procter & Gamble Co. filed a complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission to set aside demurrage rules that imposed charges on private cars left unloaded for over forty-eight hours on private tracks. The Commission dismissed the complaint on the ground that the rules were within the carriers' authority to make conditions for the acceptance of private cars. Procter & Gamble then petitioned the Commerce Court to annul the Commission's action and to enjoin the carriers from enforcing the rules. The Commerce Court took jurisdiction but found the Commission's action to be within its authority. On appeal this Court held that the Commerce *136 Court erred in taking jurisdiction and remanded the cause for dismissal.
Clearly Procter & Gamble was authorized under ยง 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce to institute the proceedings before th
Passage 3:
ubjects which in their nature were administrative and within the competency of the Commission to decide, there was power in a court, by an exercise of original action, to enforce its conceptions as to the meaning of the act to regulate commerce by dealing directly with the subject irrespective of any prior affirmative command or action by the Interstate Commerce Commission. On the contrary, by a long line of decisions, whereby applications to enforce orders of the Commission were considered and disposed of or where requests to restrain the enforcement of such orders were passed upon, it appears by the reasoning indulged in that it was never considered that there was power in the courts as an original question without previous affirmative action by the Commission to deal with what might be termed in a broad sense the administrative features of the act to regulate commerce by determining as an original question that there had been a compliance or noncompliance with the provisions of the <targetCase>act." 225 U.S. at 296-97</targetCase>. ". . . the recognition of a right in a court to assert the power now claimed would of necessity amount to a substitution of the court for the Commission or at all events would be to create a divided authority on a matter where from the beginning primary singleness of action and unity was deemed to be <targetCase>imperative." 225 U.S. at 298-99</targetCase>.
[15]  See Chief Justice Taft's estimate of the services of Chief Justice White in "a new field of administrative law": "The capital importance which our railroad system has come to have in the welfare of this country made the judicial construction of the interstate commerce act of critical moment. It is not too much to say that Chief Justice White in construing the measure and its great amendments has had more to do with placing this vital part of our practical government on a useful basis than any other judge. His opinions in the case of the Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. The Abilene Cotton Oil Co., and the cases which followed it, are models of clear and satisfactory reasoning which gave to the people, to state legislatures, to Congress, and the courts a much-needed knowledge of the practical functions the Commerce Commission was to discharge, and of how they were to be reconciled to existing governmental machinery, for the vindication of the rights of the public in respect of nati
Passage 4:
be adjudged invalid, that the order of the Commission dismissing the complaint against, it be adjudged invalid, that the carriers be enjoined from complying with the rule and that the Commission be enjoined from restricting the commerce of the complainants by its order and by the rule.

In the Lehigh Valley case the judicial relief asked was that the enforcement of the order of the Commission and the institution of any proceedings thereunder against the complainant be enjoined. In the Intermountain Rate cases the judicial relief asked was that the order of the Commission be set aside, that ยง 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce be declared invalid, and that the Commission and the Attorney General be enjoined from taking any proceedings to prosecute the carriers for violation of ยง 4.
[30]  Compare United States v. Atlanta, B. & C.R. Co., 282 U.S. 522.
[31]  See House Report 1850, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 4-5; compare 78 Cong. Rec. 8446.
[*]  See e.g.: Procter & Gamble v. United States, (1912) <targetCase>225 U.S. 282</targetCase>, 292 et seq. Hooker v. Knapp, 225 U.S. 302. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 225 U.S. 306, 320. Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U.S. 412. United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 244 U.S. 82, 89. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U.S. 258, 263-264. United States v. New River Co., 265 U.S. 533, 539-541. Delaware & Hudson Co. v. United States, 266 U.S. 438, 448. Minneapolis & St. L.R. Co. v. Peoria Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 580. Colorado v. United States, 271 U.S. 153, 161. United States v. Los Angeles & S.L.R. Co., 273 U.S. 299, 309. Gt. Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U.S. 172. Piedmont & N. Ry. Co. v. United States, 280 U.S. 469, 475-477. United States v. Atlanta, B. & C.R. Co., 282 U.S. 522. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 235. Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U.S. 229. United States v. B. & O.R. Co., 293 U.S. 454. Powell v. United States, 300 U.S. 276, 284. United States v. Griffin, 303 U.S. 226, 232 et seq. Shannahan v. United States, 303 U.S. 596, 599.