Passage 1:
e decided together. In each case the Commissioner of Internal Revenue included the trust property in the decedent's gross estate. In Nos. 110, 111 and 112 his determination was reversed by the Board of Tax Appeals, 34 B.T.A. 575, and the Board was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, 102 F.2d 1. In No. 183, the taxpayer paid under protest, successfully sued for recovery in the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and his judgment was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, 103 F.2d 834. In No. 399, the Commissioner was in part successful before the Board of Tax Appeals, 36 B.T.A. 669, and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the Board, 104 F.2d 1011.
Neither here nor below does the issue turn on the unglossed text of § 302 (c). In its enforcement, Treasury and courts alike encounter three recent decisions of this Court, Klein v. United States, 283 U.S. 231, Helvering v. St. Louis Trust Co., <targetCase>296 U.S. 39</targetCase>, and Becker v. St. Louis Trust Co., Ibid. 48. Because of the difficulties which lower courts have found in applying the distinctions made by these cases and the seeming disharmony of their results, when judged by the controlling purposes of the estate tax law, we brought the cases here. All involve dispositions of property by way of trust in which the settlement provides for return or reversion of the corpus to the donor upon a contingency terminable at his death. Whether the transfer made by the decedent in his lifetime is "intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death" by reason of that which he retained, is the crux of the problem. We must put to one side questions that arise under sections of the estate tax law other than § 302 (c) — sections, that is, relating to transfers taking place at death. Section 302 (c) deals with *111 property not technically passing at death but with interests theretofore created. The taxable event is a transfer inter vivos. B
Passage 2:
solutely . . ."
On the authority of the Klein case the Commissioner had included in the taxable estates the gifts to which, in the St. Louis Trust cases, the grantor's death had given definitive measure. If the wife had predeceased the settlor in the Klein case, he would have been repossessed of his property. His wife's interests were freed from this contingency by the husband's prior death, and because of the effect of his death this Court swept the gift into the gross estate. So in Helvering v. St. Louis Trust Co., the grantor would have become repossessed of the granted corpus had his daughter predeceased him. But he predeceased her and by that event her interest ripened to full dominion. The same analysis applies to the Becker case. In all three situations the result and effect were the same. The event which gave to the beneficiaries a dominion over property which they did not have prior to the donor's death was an act of nature outside the grantor's "control, design or volition." <targetCase>296 U.S. 39</targetCase>, 43. But it was no more and no less "fortuitous," so far as the grantor's "control, design or volition" was concerned, in the St. *114 Louis Trust cases than it was in the Klein case. In none of the three cases did the dominion over property which finally came to the beneficiary fall by virtue of the grantor's will, except by his provision that his own death should establish such final and complete dominion. And yet a mere difference in phrasing the circumstance by which identic interests in property were brought into being — varying forms of words in the creation of the same worldly interests — was found sufficient to exclude the St. Louis Trust settlements from the application of the Klein doctrine.
Four members of the Court saw no difference. They relied on the governing principle of § 302 (c) that Congress meant to include in the gross estate inter vivos gifts "which may be resorted to, as a substitute for a will, in making dispositions of property operative at <targetCase>death." 296 U.S. at 46</targetCase>. To effectuate this purpose practical considerations applicable to taxation and not the "niceties of the art of conveyancing" were their touchstone. "Having in mind," said the dissenters, "the purpose of the statute and the breadth of its language it would seem to be of no consequence what particular conveyancers' device — what particular string — the decedent selected to hold in suspense the ultimate disposition of his property until the moment of his death. In determining whether a taxable transfer becomes complete only at death we look to substance, not to form . . . However we label the device it is but a means by which the gift is rendered incomplete until the donor's <targetCase>death." 296 U.S. at 47</targetCase>. For the majority in the St. Louis Trust Company cases, these practicalities had less significance than the formal categories of property law. The grantor's death, the majority said, in Helvering v. St. Louis Trust Co., "simply put an end to what, at best, was a mere possibility of a reverter by extinguishing it — that is to say, by converting what was merely possible into an utter impossibility." 296 U.S. *115 39, 43. This was precisely the mode of argument which had been rejected in Klein v. United States, supra.
We are now asked to accept all three decisions as constituting a coherent body of law, and to apply their distinctions to the trusts before us.
In Nos. 110, 111 and 112 (Helvering v. Hallock) the decedent in 1919 created a trust under a separation agreement, giving the income to his wife for life, with this further provision:
"If and when Anne Lamson Hallock shall die then and in such event . . . the within trust shall terminate and said Trustee shall . . . pay Party of the
Passage 3:
ions. Surely we are not bound by reason or by the considerations that underlie stare decisis to persevere in distinctions taken in the application of a statute which, on further examination, appear consonant neither with the purposes of the statute nor with this Court's own conception of it. We therefore reject as untenable the diversities taken in the St. Louis Trust cases in applying the Klein doctrine — untenable because they drastically eat into the principle which those cases professed to accept and to which we adhere.
In Nos. 110, 111, 112 and 183, the judgments are
Reversed.
In No. 399, the judgment is
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in the result upon the ground that each of these cases is controlled by our decision in Klein v. United States, 283 U.S. 231.
*123 MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.
There is certainly a distinction in fact between the transaction considered in Klein v. United States, 283 U.S. 231, and those under review in Helvering v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., <targetCase>296 U.S. 39</targetCase>, and Becker v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 296 U.S. 48. The courts, the Board of Tax Appeals, and the Treasury have found no difficulty in observing the distinction in specific cases. I believe it is one of substance, not merely of terminology, and not dependent on the niceties of conveyancing or recondite doctrines of ancient property law.
But if I am wrong in this, I still think the judgments in Nos. 110-112, and 183 should be affirmed and that in 399 should be reversed. The rule of interpretation adopted in the St. Louis Union Trust Company cases should now be followed for two reasons: First, that rule was indicated by decisions of this court as the one applicable in the circumstances here disclosed, as early as 1927; was progressively developed and applied by the Board of Tax Appeals, the lower federal courts, and this court, up to the decision of McCormick v. Burnet, 283 U.S. 784, in 1931; and has since been followed by those tribunals in not less than fifty cases. It ought not to