Passage 1:
ate to substitute for its own statute, applicable to persons and events within it, the conflicting statute of another state, even though that statute is of controlling force in the courts of the state of its enactment with respect to the same persons and events."
Moreover, Haddock v. Haddock is not based on the contrary theory. Nor did it hold that a decree of divorce granted by the courts of one state need not be given full faith and credit in another if the grounds for the divorce would not be recognized by the courts of the forum. It does not purport to challenge or disturb the rule, earlier established by Christmas v. Russell, supra, and subsequently fortified by Fauntleroy v. Lum, supra, that, even though the cause of action could not have been entertained in the state of the forum, a judgment obtained thereon in a sister state is entitled to full faith and credit. For the majority opinion in the Haddock case accepted both Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108, and Atherton v. Atherton, <targetCase>181 U.S. 155</targetCase>. Cheever v. Wilson held that a decree of divorce granted by a state in which one spouse was domiciled and which had personal jurisdiction over the other was as conclusive in other states as it was in the state where it was obtained. Atherton v. Atherton held that full faith and credit must be given a decree of divorce granted by *297 the state of the matrimonial domicil on constructive service against the other spouse who was a non-resident of that state. The decisive difference between those cases and Haddock v. Haddock was said to be that, in the latter, the state granting the divorce had no jurisdiction over the absent spouse, since it was not the state of the matrimonial domicil, but the place where the husband had acquired a separate domicil after having wrongfully left his wife. This Court accordingly classified Haddock v. Haddock with that group of cases which hold that when the courts of one state do not have jurisdiction either of the subject matter or of the person of the de
Passage 2:
t purported to decree would have been without legal sanction in every state, including Nevada. There would be no occasion to consider the applicability of the Full Faith and Credit Clause. It is precisely because the Nevada decrees do satisfy the requirements of the Due Process Clause and are binding in Nevada upon the absent spouses that we are called upon to decide whether these judgments, unassailable in the state which rendered them, are, despite the commands of the Full Faith and Credit Clause, null and void elsewhere.
North Carolina did not base its disregard of the Nevada decrees on the claim that they were a fraud and a sham, and no claim was made here on behalf of North Carolina *307 that the decrees were not valid in Nevada. It is indisputable that the Nevada decrees here, like the Connecticut decree in the Haddock case, were valid and binding in the state where they were rendered. Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U.S. 562, 569-70; Maynard v. Hill, 125 U.S. 190; Atherton v. Atherton, <targetCase>181 U.S. 155</targetCase>. In denying constitutional sanction to such a valid judgment outside the state which rendered it, the Haddock decision made an arbitrary break with the past and created distinctions incompatible with the role of this Court in enforcing the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Freed from the hopeless refinements introduced by that case, the question before us is simply whether the Nevada decrees were rendered under circumstances that would make them binding against the absent spouses in the state where they were rendered. North Carolina did not challenge the power of Nevada to declare the marital status of persons found to be Nevada residents. North Carolina chose instead to disrespect the consequences of Nevada's exertion of such power. It is therefore no more rhetorical to say that Nevada is seeking to impose its policy upon North Carolina than it is to say that North Carolina is seeking to impose its policy upon Nevada.
For all but a very small fraction of the community the niceties of res
Passage 3:
d, 216 U.S. 386; Hood v. McGehee, 237 U.S. 611; Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U.S. 385; Clark v. Williard, 294 U.S. 211; Pink v. A.A.A. Highway Express Co., 314 U.S. 201.
[4]  Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U.S. 276, 279; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U.S. 308, 313; Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U.S. 457, 463-464; Skiriotes v. Florida, 313 U.S. 69.
[5]   Cf. Arndt v. Griggs; Dewey v. Des Moines; Grannis v. Ordean; Clark v. Williard, supra, note 3.
[6]  A spouse who appears and contests the jurisdiction of the court of another state to grant a divorce may not collaterally attack its findings of domicile and jurisdiction made after such appearance. Davis v. Davis, 305 U.S. 32. So also, a deserter from the matrimonial domicile may be bound by a divorce granted by a court of the state where the matrimonial domicile is situated. Whether fault on the part of the deserter is an essential seems on the basis of our cases on jurisdiction for divorce to be an open question; Atherton v. Atherton, <targetCase>181 U.S. 155</targetCase>; Haddock v. Haddock, supra, at 570, 572, 583; and Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U.S. 551; but our decisions on analogous problems might be found to afford adequate support for a decision that it is not. Cf. Washington ex rel. Bond & Goodwin & Tucker v. Superior Court, 289 U.S. 361; Doherty & Co. v. Goodman, 294 U.S. 623. See, further, Restatement, Conflict of Laws, §§ 112, 113.
[7]  This was the decision in Bell v. Bell, 181 U.S. 175; And Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U.S. 14. Davis v. Davis, supra, note 6, in no way indicates that a finding of domicile after appearance of the absent spouse and litigation of the question would be conclusive upon the state of his domicile in litigation involving its interests and not merely those of the parties. Cf. Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U.S. 165, 172, n. 13.
[8]  1 Beale, Conflict of Laws (1935) § 10.3.
[9]  Compare Texas v. Florida, 306 U.S. 398, with Massachusetts v. Missouri, 308 U.S. 1. And see Tweed and Sargent, Death and Taxation are Certain — But What o