Passage 1:
Yet there is no indication whatsoever that it went further and took away any personal remedy which a tort claimant might have against such a private operator. While ยง 1 abolishes the right to arrest or seize the vessel, ยง 2 provides that "a libel in personam may be brought against the United States or against such corporations" in cases where "if such vessel were privately owned or operated . . . a proceeding in *580 admiralty could be maintained." Sec. 2, however, does not mention private operators. Nor do the Committee Reports advert to private operators, except as they may be affected by ยง 1. The liability of an agent for his own negligence has long been embedded in the law. Quinn v. Southgate Nelson Corp., 121 F.2d 190, is a recent application of that principle to a situation very close to the present one. But the principle is an ancient one and applies even to certain acts of public officers or public instrumentalities. As stated in Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. Emergency Fleet Corp., <targetCase>258 U.S. 549</targetCase>, 567, "An instrumentality of government he might be and for the greatest ends, but the agent, because he is agent, does not cease to be answerable for his acts." In that case the Fleet Corporation was held to be amenable to suit. And that policy has been followed. For when it comes to the utilization of corporate facilities[2] in the broadening phases of federal activities in the commercial or business field, immunity from suit is not favored. Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306 U.S. 381; Federal Housing Administration v. Burr, 309 U.S. 242. Congress adopted that policy when it made corporations wholly owned by the United States suable on maritime causes of action under ยง 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act. That it had the power to grant or withhold immunity from suit on behalf of governmental corporations is plain. Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U.S. 229; Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Menihan Corp., 312 U.S. 81. We may also assume that it would have the power to gra