Passage 1:
thdrawal of the right to sue the agent for his torts would result at times in a substantial dilution of the rights of claimants. Assuming that the ordinary rules of agency apply in determining whether the United States or the Maritime Commission is responsible under § 2 of the Act for torts of private operators such as respondent, there would be instances where unless the private operator was liable no one would be. The principal is not liable for every negligent act of his agent. Furthermore, if all suits to enforce maritime causes of action must be brought in such cases under § 2 of the Act the short statute of limitations of two years contained in § 5 is applicable. Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Rosenberg Bros. & Co., supra. Moreover, if, as apparently was the case here, the claimant was eligible to receive and did receive compensation under the United States Employees Compensation Act (39 Stat. 742, 5 U.S.C. § 751), he is barred from suing the United States for the tort. Dahn v. Davis, <targetCase>258 U.S. 421</targetCase>. He may however sue "some person other than the United States"; and in case of recovery the amount is credited on the compensation payable to him. § 777. We mention these matters as illustrations of the practical impact on claimants if it were held that the Suits in Admiralty Act restricted all suits in cases like the present to libels in personam against the United States or its wholly owned corporations. We can only conclude that if Congress had intended to make such an inroad on the rights of claimants it would have said so in unambiguous terms. There is one bit of legislative history which it is claimed reveals such a purpose. It is a single statement made by Representative Volstead, sponsor of the bill in the House (59 Cong. Rec. 1680): "Mr. White of Maine. Would this bill apply to Shipping Board vessels that are allocated to private concerns and are being operated by private concerns? Mr. Volstead: Yes; it covers all ships owned by *582 the Government." The reply was accurate. T