Passage 1:
was carried into the tax filed in The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, 18 L.Ed. 667, and for the same reasons. That case also emphasized that the Indians could 'not look to Kansas for protection', 759 of 5 Wall., and that Kansas was not 'obliged to confer any rights on them', 758 of 5 Wall. The tax exemption, said the Court, must last until the Indians were 'clothed with the rights and bound to all the duties of citizens', 756 of 5 Wall. A similar result was reached in The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761, 18 L.Ed. 70, decided the same day, where the State sought to raise money by taxes to build roads in Indian reservations and where existing treaties forbade the state's building such roads. Later, for a period of time, Indian lands held in trust by the United States were found to be constitutionally tax exempt on the theory that they were federal instrumentalities, i.e., that the lands were held by the United States for the Indians, and were therefore non-taxable. United States v. Rickert, <targetCase>188 U.S. 432</targetCase>, <targetCase>23 S.Ct. 478</targetCase>, 47 L.Ed. 532. In time, this constitutional concept was expanded to grant tax exemption to the income derived from Indian lands, whether tribally or individually owned, even when the privilege of exploitation had been granted to non-Indian lessees.4 The instrumentality concept ultimately resulted in a decision exempting Indian estates from taxation. Childers v. Beaver, supra. None of these cases held, nor has this Court ever decided, that congressional restriction of an Indian's income carried an implication of estate tax exemption.


6
The underlying principles on which these decisions are based do not fit the situation of the Oklahoma Indians. Although there are remnants of the form of tribal sovereignty, these Indians have no effective tribal autonomy as in Worcester v. Georgia, supra; and, unlike the Indians involved in The Kansas Indians case, supra, they are actually citizens of the State with little to distinguish them from all other citizens except for their limited property r
Passage 2:
vious protection and freedom from state control accorded Indians and their lands. The Indian surrendered tribal land, protected against state taxation as well as against all other forms of voluntary and involuntary encumbrance and alienation. Cf. The Kansas Indians, supra; The New York Indians, supra. Under the various allotment acts he received in return land which was intended to have the same measure of protection for a temporary period, generally subject to extension. Thus the General Allotment Act of 1887, 24 Stat. 388, provided for the issuance to allottees of trust patents which were to declare: 'the United States does * * * hold the land thus allotted, for the period of twenty-five years, in trust * * * and that at the expiration of said period the United States will convey the same by patent to said Indian * * * in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all charge and incumbrance whatsoever.'8 Lands so held in trust are immune from state taxation. United States v. Rickert, <targetCase>188 U.S. 432</targetCase>, <targetCase>23 S.Ct. 478</targetCase>, 47 L.Ed. 532.


35
The lands here involved were not allotted under 'trust patents'; they were grants in fee subject to restrictions against alienation and encumbrance.9 But there are no differences of substance between the two forms of tenure which suggest that while the one is exempt from state taxation, the other is not, or that Congress intended to favor Indians holding under 'trust patents' over those holding restricted fees. Cf. The Kansas Indians, supra, 5 Wall. at page 755, 18 L.Ed. 667. The power of Congress over 'trust' and 'restricted' lands is the same, Board of Commissioners v. Seber, supra, and in practice the terms have been used interchangeably. See United States v. Bowling, 256 U.S. 484, 41 S. t. 561, 65 L.Ed. 1054; cf. State of Minnesota v. United States, 305 U.S. 382, 59 S.Ct. 292, 83 L.Ed. 235. Both devices had a common purpose, to protect a dependent people against loss of their property through their own improvidence or the greed of others during the period of tr