Passage 1:
ain categories: land exempt from direct taxation; land not exempt from direct taxation; restricted cash and securities held for the Indians by the Secretary of the Interior; and miscellaneous personal properties and insurance. The total value of the three estates was assessed at approximately $1,245,000, of which about 90% represents the value of the cash and securities.1


3
Initially we are met with the contention that Oklahoma did not intend to tax the estates of the members of the Five Civilized Tribes. We cannot agree with this view. The two controlling statutes broadly provide for a tax upon all transfers made in contemplation of death or intended to take effect after death as well as transfers 'by will or the intestate laws of this state.'2 The language of the statutes does not except either Indians or any other persons from their scope. Efforts of Oklahoma to apply this tax to the estate of a deceased Quapaw Indian were frustrated by this Court's opinion in Childers v. Beaver, <targetCase>270 U.S. 555</targetCase>, <targetCase>46 S.Ct. 387</targetCase>, 70 L.Ed. 730, decided in 1926. Shortly afterwards the Oklahoma Supreme Court refused to sustain the tax on an Osage estate under the impression that this result was required by the Beaver decision; but, significantly, the Oklahoma Court held that the scope of the state law should not be limited 'further than the rule therein established.' Childers v. Pope, 119 Okl. 300, 303, 249 P. 726, 729. About 1938, the Oklahoma taxing authorities apparently initiated new efforts to collect an estate tax from Indians. This state action followed our decision in Superintendent v. Commissioner, 295 U.S. 418, 55 S.Ct. 820, 79 L.Ed. 1517, in which we held that the restricted income of Indians was subject to the federal income tax, and our decision in Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U.S. 376, 58 S.Ct. 623, 82 L.Ed. 907, which overruled previous decisions limiting the power of the state to impose certain types of taxes on incomes derived from tax exempt and restricted Indian property. The sta
Passage 2:
the duties of citizens', 756 of 5 Wall. A similar result was reached in The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761, 18 L.Ed. 70, decided the same day, where the State sought to raise money by taxes to build roads in Indian reservations and where existing treaties forbade the state's building such roads. Later, for a period of time, Indian lands held in trust by the United States were found to be constitutionally tax exempt on the theory that they were federal instrumentalities, i.e., that the lands were held by the United States for the Indians, and were therefore non-taxable. United States v. Rickert, 188 U.S. 432, 23 S.Ct. 478, 47 L.Ed. 532. In time, this constitutional concept was expanded to grant tax exemption to the income derived from Indian lands, whether tribally or individually owned, even when the privilege of exploitation had been granted to non-Indian lessees.4 The instrumentality concept ultimately resulted in a decision exempting Indian estates from taxation. Childers v. Beaver, <targetCase>supra.</targetCase> None of these cases held, nor has this Court ever decided, that congressional restriction of an Indian's income carried an implication of estate tax exemption.


6
The underlying principles on which these decisions are based do not fit the situation of the Oklahoma Indians. Although there are remnants of the form of tribal sovereignty, these Indians have no effective tribal autonomy as in Worcester v. Georgia, supra; and, unlike the Indians involved in The Kansas Indians case, supra, they are actually citizens of the State with little to distinguish them from all other citizens except for their limited property restrictions and their tax exemptions.5 Their lands are held in fee, not in trust, as in the Rickert case, and the doctrine of constitutional immunity from taxation for the income of their holdings on the federal instrumentality theory has been renounced. Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corporation, supra. Chil ers v. Beavers, supra, was in effect overruled by the Mountain Prod