Passage 1:
original cost of the property would have been if 1938 material and labor prices had prevailed throughout the whole period of the piecemeal construction of the company's property since 1898." 44 P.U.R. (N.S.), pp. 8-9. Hope estimated by the "per cent condition" method accrued depreciation at about 35% of *597 reproduction cost new. On that basis Hope contended for a rate base of $66,000,000. The Commission refused to place any reliance on reproduction cost new, saying that it was "not predicated upon facts" and was "too conjectural and illusory to be given any weight in these proceedings." Id., p. 8. It likewise refused to give any "probative value" to trended "original cost" since it was "not founded in fact" but was "basically erroneous" and produced "irrational results." Id., p. 9. In determining the amount of accrued depletion and depreciation the Commission, following Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 292 U.S. 151, 167-169; Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co., <targetCase>315 U.S. 575</targetCase>, 592-593, based its computation on "actual legitimate cost." It found that Hope during the years when its business was not under regulation did not observe "sound depreciation and depletion practices" but "actually accumulated an excessive reserve"[4] of about $46,000,000. Id., p. 18. One member of the Commission thought that the entire amount of the reserve should be deducted from "actual legitimate cost" in determining the rate base.[5] The majority of the *598 Commission concluded, however, that where, as here, a business is brought under regulation for the first time and where incorrect depreciation and depletion practices have prevailed, the deduction of the reserve requirement (actual existing depreciation and depletion) rather than the excessive reserve should be made so as to lay "a sound basis for future regulation and control of rates." Id., p. 18. As we have pointed out, it determined accrued depletion and depreciation to be $22,328,016; and it allowed approximately $1,460,
Passage 2:
ess" so as to give courts power to block efforts of the state and national governments to regulate economic affairs. The present case does not afford a proper occasion to discuss the soundness of that doctrine because, as stated in MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S dissent, "that issue is not here in controversy." The salutary practice whereby courts do not discuss issues in the abstract applies with peculiar force to Constitutional questions. Since, however, the dissent adverts to a highly controversial due process doctrine and implies its acceptance by Congress, we feel compelled to say that we do not understand that Congress voluntarily has acquiesced in a Constitutional principle of government that courts, rather than legislative bodies, possess final authority over regulation of economic affairs. Even this Court has not always fully embraced that principle, and we wish to repeat that we have never acquiesced in it, and do not now. See Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co., <targetCase>315 U.S. 575</targetCase>, 599-601.
MR. JUSTICE REED, dissenting:
This case involves the problem of rate making under the Natural Gas Act. Added importance arises from the obvious fact that the principles stated are generally applicable to all federal agencies which are entrusted with the determination of rates for utilities. Because my views differ somewhat from those of my brethren, it may be of some value to set them out in a summary form.
The Congress may fix utility rates in situations subject to federal control without regard to any standard except the constitutional standards of due process and for taking private property for public use without just compensation. Wilson v. New, 243 U.S. 332, 350. A Commission, however, does not have this freedom of action. Its powers are limited not only by the constitutional standards but also by the standards of the delegation. Here the standard added by the Natural Gas Act is that the rate be "just *621 and reasonable."[1] Section 6[2] throws additional light on the
Passage 3:
the perspective of the considerations set forth by MR. JUSTICE JACKSON.
BY MR. JUSTICE JACKSON:
Certainly the theory of the court below that ties rate-making to the fair-value-reproduction-cost formula should be overruled as in conflict with Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co.[1] But the case should, I think, be the occasion for reconsideration of our rate-making doctrine as applied to natural gas and should be returned to the Commission, for further consideration in the light thereof.
The Commission appears to have understood the effect of the two opinions in the Pipeline case to be at least authority and perhaps direction to fix natural gas rates by exclusive application of the "prudent investment" rate base theory. This has no warrant in the opinion of the Chief Justice for the Court, however, which released the Commission from subservience to "any single formula or combination of formulas" provided its order, "viewed in its entirety, produces no arbitrary result." <targetCase>315 U.S. at 586</targetCase>. The minority opinion I understood to advocate the "prudent investment" theory as a sufficient guide in a natural gas case. The view was expressed in the court below that since this opinion was not expressly controverted it must have been approved.[2] I disclaim this imputed *629 approval with some particularity, because I attach importance at the very beginning of federal regulation of the natural gas industry to approaching it as the performance of economic functions, not as the performance of legalistic rituals.

I.
Solutions of these cases must consider eccentricities of the industry which gives rise to them and also to the Act of Congress by which they are governed.
The heart of this problem is the elusive, exhaustible, and irreplaceable nature of natural gas itself. Given sufficient money, we can produce any desired amount of railroad, bus, or steamship transportation, or communications facilities, or capacity for generation of electric energy, or for the manufacture of gas of a
Passage 4:
ission fixed a single rate for all gas delivered irrespective of its use despite the fact that Hope has established what amounts to two rates — a high one for domestic use and a lower one for industrial contracts.[46] The Commission can fix two prices for interstate gas as readily as one — a price for resale to domestic users and another for resale to industrial users. This is the pattern Hope itself has established in the very contracts over which the Commission is expressly given jurisdiction. Certainly the Act is broad enough to permit two prices to be fixed instead of one, if the concept of the "public interest" is not unduly narrowed.
The Commission's concept of the public interest in natural gas cases which is carried today into the Court's opinion was first announced in the opinion of the minority in the Pipeline case. It enumerated only two "phases of the public interest: (1) the investor interest; (2) the consumer interest," which it emphasized to the exclusion of all others. <targetCase>315 U.S. 575</targetCase>, 606. This will do well enough in dealing with railroads or utilities supplying manufactured gas, electric power, a communications service or transportation, where utilization of facilities does not impair their future usefulness. Limitation of supply, however, brings into a natural gas case another phase of the public interest that to my mind overrides both the owner *657 and the consumer of that interest. Both producers and industrial consumers have served their immediate private interests at the expense of the long-range public interest. The public interest, of course, requires stopping unjust enrichment of the owner. But it also requires stopping unjust impoverishment of future generations. The public interest in the use by Hope's half million domestic consumers is quite a different one from the public interest in use by a baker's dozen of industries.
Prudent price fixing it seems to me must at the very threshold determine whether any part of an allowed return shall be permitted t
Passage 5:
cost" has been variously defined, but for rate-making purposes the most useful sense seems to be, the minimum amount necessary to create at the time of the inquiry a modern plant capable of rendering equivalent service. See I Bonbright, Valuation of Property (1937) 152. Reproduction cost as the cost of building a replica of an obsolescent plant is not of real significance.

"Prudent investment" is not defined by the Court. It may mean the sum originally put in the enterprise, either with or without additional amounts from excess earnings reinvested in the business.
[4]  It is of no more than bookkeeping significance whether the Commission allows a rate of return commensurate with the risk of the original investment or the lower rate based on current risk and a capitalization reflecting the established earning power of a successful company and the probable cost of duplicating its services. Cf. A.T. & T. Co. v. United States, 299 U.S. 232. But the latter is the traditional method.
[1]  <targetCase>315 U.S. 575</targetCase>.
[2]  Judge Dobie, dissenting below, pointed out that the majority opinion in the Pipeline case "contains no express discussion of the Prudent Investment Theory" and that the concurring opinion contained a clear one, and said, "It is difficult for me to believe that the majority of the Supreme Court, believing otherwise, would leave such a statement unchallenged." The fact that two other Justices had as matter of record in our books long opposed the reproduction cost theory of rate bases and had commented favorably on the prudent investment theory may have influenced that conclusion. See opinion of Mr. Justice Frankfurter in Driscoll v. Edison Light & Power Co., 307 U.S. 104, 122, and my brief as Solicitor General in that case. It should be noted, however, that these statements were made, not in a natural gas case, but in an electric power case — a very important distinction, as I shall try to make plain.
[3]  Natural gas from the Appalachian field averages about 1,050 to 1,150 B.T.U.