Passage 1:
letion and depreciation. We held in the Natural Gas Pipeline Co. case that there was no constitutional requirement "that the owner who embarks in a wasting-asset business of limited life shall receive at the end more than he has put into it." 315 U.S. p. 593. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not think that that rule was applicable here because Hope was a utility required to continue its service to the public and not scheduled to end its business on a day certain as was stipulated to be true of the Natural Gas Pipeline Co. But that distinction is quite immaterial. The ultimate exhaustion of the supply is inevitable in the case of all natural gas companies. Moreover, this Court recognized in Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., supra, the propriety of basing annual depreciation on cost.[10] By such a procedure the utility is made whole and the integrity of its investment maintained.[11] No more is required.[12] We cannot approve the contrary holding *607 of United Railways Co. v. West, <targetCase>280 U.S. 234</targetCase>, 253-254. Since there are no constitutional requirements more exacting than the standards of the Act, a rate order which conforms to the latter does not run afoul of the former.
The Position of West Virginia. The State of West Virginia, as well as its Public Service Commission, intervened in the proceedings before the Commission and participated in the hearings before it. They have also filed a brief amicus curiae here and have participated in the argument at the bar. Their contention is that the result achieved by the rate order "brings consequences which are unjust to West Virginia and its citizens" and which "unfairly depress the value of gas, gas lands and gas leaseholds, unduly restrict development of their natural resources, and arbitrarily transfer their properties to the residents of other states without just compensation therefor."
West Virginia points out that the Hope Natural Gas Co. holds a large number of leases on both producing and unoperated properties. The owner or gr
Passage 2:
e in all probability can earn." Institutional Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P.R. Co., 318 U.S. 523, 540.
[10]  Chief Justice Hughes said in that case (292 U.S. pp. 168-169):

"If the predictions of service life were entirely accurate and retirements were made when and as these predictions were precisely fulfilled, the depreciation reserve would represent the consumption of capital, on a cost basis, according to the method which spreads that loss over the respective service periods. But if the amounts charged to operating expenses and credited to the account for depreciation reserve are excessive, to that extent subscribers for the telephone service are required to provide, in effect, capital contributions, not to make good losses incurred by the utility in the service rendered and thus to keep its investment unimpaired, but to secure additional plant and equipment upon which the utility expects a return."
[11]  See Mr. Justice Brandeis (dissenting) in United Railways Co. v. West, <targetCase>280 U.S. 234</targetCase>, 259-288, for an extended analysis of the problem.
[12]  It should be noted that the Act provides no specific rule governing depletion and depreciation. Sec. 9 (a) merely states that the Commission "may from time to time ascertain and determine, and by order fix, the proper and adequate rates of depreciation and amortization of the several classes of property of each natural-gas company used or useful in the production, transportation, or sale of natural gas."
[13]  See Simonton, The Nature of the Interest of the Grantee Under an Oil and Gas Lease (1918), 25 W. Va. L. Quar. 295.
[14]  West Penn Power Co. v. Board of Review, 112 W. Va. 442, 164 S.E. 862.
[15]  W. Va. Rev. Code of 1943, ch. 11, Art. 13, §§ 2a, 3a.
[16]  West Virginia suggests as a possible solution (1) that a "going concern value" of the company's tangible assets be included in the rate base and (2) that the fair market value of gas delivered to customers be added to the outlay for operating expenses and taxes.
[17]  S.