Passage 1:
t in as a party plaintiff, had conspired to expand the monopoly of the patent in violation of the antitrust laws. Mercoid asked not only for declaratory relief but for an accounting and treble damages as well. The District Court found that Mercoid did not contribute to the infringement of the Cross patent; that respondents had conspired to establish a monopoly in an unpatented appliance beyond the scope of the patent and in violation of the anti-trust laws; and that respondents were in no position to maintain the suit because of that conspiracy. Mercoid was granted an injunction but its prayer for damages was denied. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the District Court in disallowing damages *663 under the counterclaim. In all other respects it reversed that judgment, holding that Mercoid was guilty of contributory infringement under the rule of Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2), 213 U.S. 325, and that Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., <targetCase>283 U.S. 27</targetCase> and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U.S. 458, did not bar recovery as the District Court had thought. 133 F.2d 803. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the public importance of the questions presented.
The controversy centers around the license agreement between Mid-Continent and Minneapolis-Honeywell. By that agreement Minneapolis-Honeywell received an exclusive license to make, use, sell, and to sub-license others to make, use, and sell the Cross combination patent No. 1,758,146. The royalty payments under the license, however, were to be based only upon sales of the combustion stoker switch which was an element of the combination patent embodied in the patented article but which was itself unpatented. The license agreement was construed by the Circuit Court of Appeals to mean that the royalty payments were to be made only on switches used for fire maintenance purposes under the Cross patent. And Minneapolis-Honeywell in advertising
Passage 2:
lis-Honeywell, does not sell or install the Cross heating system. But the Circuit Court of Appeals found that Mercoid manufactured and sold combustion stoker switches for use in the Cross combination patent. And we may assume that Mercoid did not act innocently. Indeed the Circuit Court of Appeals said that it could find no use for the accused devices other than in the Cross combination patent. And it assumed, as was held in Smith v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 106 F.2d 622, that the Cross patent was valid. But though we assume the validity of the patent and accept fully the findings of the Circuit Court of Appeals, we think the judgment below should be reversed.
Ever since Henry v. A.B. Dick Co., 224 U.S. 1, was overruled by Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U.S. 502, this Court has consistently held that the owner of a patent may not employ it to secure a limited monopoly of an unpatented material used in applying the invention. Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., <targetCase>supra</targetCase>; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., supra; Morton Salt *665 Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co., 314 U.S. 488; B.B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U.S. 495. In those cases both direct and contributory infringement suits were disallowed on a showing that the owner of the patent was using it "as the effective means of restraining competition with its sale of an unpatented article." Morton Salt Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co., supra, p. 490. The Court has repeatedly held that to allow such suits would be to extend the aid of a court of equity in expanding the patent beyond the legitimate scope of its monopoly. It is true that those cases involved the use of the patent for a machine or process to secure a partial monopoly in supplies consumed in its operation or unpatented materials employed in it. But we can see no difference in principle where the unpatented material or device is itself an integral part of the structure embodying the patent.
The grant of a patent is the grant of a special privilege "to promote t
Passage 3:
decree against him became final, could not have defended a charge of contempt for disobeying the decree on the ground now asserted. And if the judgment concluded him thus directly, I cannot agree that he may now disregard it or collaterally attack it. And confessedly Mercoid stands in his shoes.[3]
I should affirm the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE REED joins in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting:
The Court holds in effect that the owner of a patent who exacts, as the condition of a license, that unpatented materials used in connection with the invention shall be purchased only from the licensor cannot obtain relief from equity against one who supplies such unpatented materials even though the unpatented appliance was not for common use but was designedly adapted for the practice of the invention, but when so used did not involve an infringement of the patent. The decision is thus merely an appropriate application of what has come to be known as the doctrine in the Carbice case, <targetCase>283 U.S. 27</targetCase>. In this view I concur.
But in the series of cases in which that doctrine has heretofore been applied (Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U.S. 502; Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., supra; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 *677 U.S. 488; B.B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U.S. 495), not once has this Court found it relevant to reject, either explicitly or by indirection, another doctrine of the law, that of contributory infringement, nor has it seen fit to make animadversions upon it. This is so doubtless for the simple reason that appropriate occasions for relief against contributory infringement are unrelated to the circumstances which bring the Carbice doctrine into play. In a word, if there is no infringement of a patent there can be no contributory infringer.
Within its true limits the idea of contributory infringement was woven into the fabric of our law and has been part of it for now more than seventy years. See Roberts, Contributory Infringement of Patent Ri
Passage 4:
to combine them. But the mere manufacture of a separate element of a patented combination, unless such manufacture be proved to have been conducted for the purpose, and with the intent of aiding infringement, is not, in and of itself, infringement." Saxe v. Hammond, Fed. Cas. No. 12,411, 1 Ban. & A. 629, 632. So understood, the doctrine of contributory infringement is an expression both of law and morals. It is but one phase of a more comprehending doctrine of legal liability enforced by this Court both in civil and criminal cases. See, for instance, American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank, 256 U.S. 350, and Direct Sales Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. 703. Indeed, the opinion in the Carbice case explicitly recognizes a proper scope for the doctrine of contributory infringement as a phase of the *678 law of torts: "Infringement, whether direct or contributory, is essentially a tort, and implies invasion of some right of the patentee." Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., <targetCase>283 U.S. 27</targetCase>, 33.
To be sure, the doctrine of contributory infringement may be misconceived and has been misapplied. That is the fate of all shorthand statements of complicated ideas, whether in law or in the natural sciences. But the misapplication of a formula into which a complicated idea is compressed and thereby mutilated is a poor excuse for rejecting the idea. It will be time enough to define the appropriate limits of the doctrine of contributory infringement when we are required to deal with the problem. Until then litigants and lower courts ought not to be embarrassed by gratuitous innuendoes against a principle of the law which, within its proper bounds, is accredited by legal history as well as ethics. The long and on the whole not unworthy history of our judicial administration admonishes us against expressing views on matters not before us. The history of this Court especially admonishes us against the evils of giving opinions not called for. See e.g. Hughes, The Supreme Court of the
Passage 5:
uthority for giving it additional value by bringing into its monopoly all or any of the unpatentable parts.
For these reasons I agree with the Court that no case of infringement could have been made out had the issue been raised when it was timely. But I agree with the views of the doctrine of res adjudicata expressed by MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and for that reason join the dissent.
NOTES
[1]  The Court in that case did not refer to the doctrine of misuse of a patent. That doctrine indeed was developed in this Court some years later as shown by the Motion Picture case. The record in the Leeds & Catlin case indicates that the point which we deem crucial in the instant case was adverted to only obliquely in the briefs. The Court was chiefly concerned with the proposition that a substitution or renewal of an unpatented element of a combination patent, as distinguished from its repair, is a "reconstruction" of the combination 213 U.S. pp. 333, 336.
[1]  Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., <targetCase>283 U.S. 27</targetCase>; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U.S. 458.
[2]  Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U.S. 20; United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U.S. 265.
[3]  Bryant Electric Co. v. Marshall, 169 F. 426; affirmed 185 F. 499. Compare Souffront v. La Compagnie, 217 U.S. 475. And see cases collected 139 A.L.R. 41.
[1]  I Holmes-Pollock Letters, p. 53.