Passage 1:
rred subsequent to that act. In its view the Hust case held, as a matter of law, that before the Clarification Act a seaman under the Jones Act could recover for a tort against a service agreement general agent, as an employer. The court did not perceive how the Clarification Act changed this liability. 169 F.2d 4, 8.

I.
We are impelled to the conclusion that the Clarification Act affords no basis for distinguishing the present case from the Hust case and that the reasoning in the later Caldarola case, which we accept as sound, calls for the rejection of the basis of the Hust case. The Hust case went on the theory that the general agents for the United States under the same standard service agreement were employers of the injured seaman, Hust, for the purposes of liability under the Jones Act.[6] The general agent was found to be liable to the seaman by two steps of reasoning: first, that the overruling of Fleet Corporation v. Lustgarten, 280 U.S. 320, by Brady v. Roosevelt S.S. Co., <targetCase>317 U.S. 575</targetCase>, gave a seaman a right to sue under the Jones Act such general agents as were employed under contracts like Moore-McCormack's for torts committed against seamen by masters and crew, 328 U.S. 716-722; second, that although "technically the agreement *788 made Hust an employee of the United States," p. 723, the "rules of private agency," p. 724, should not be applied to take away "protections" from seamen. See 332 U.S. 165-166.[7] This second step was said to find support in the election given to seamen by ยง 1 of the Clarification Act to proceed under the new Act for claims arising after October 1, 1941, and before the enactment of the Clarification Act, March 24, 1943. 328 U.S. at 725, et seq.[8]
*789 As to the first conclusion, we think it arises from a misconception of the ruling of the Brady case. The Brady case decided no more, directly or by implication, than that an action could be maintained against agents of the United States at common law for the agents' own torts. The case did not involve the right to recover against employers under the Jones Act. Brady was a customs inspector suing for injuries sustained when a ship's ladder broke. The opinion <targetCase>said. 317 U.S. at 577</targetCase>, "The sole question here is whether the Suits in Admiralty Act makes private operators such as respondent nonsuable for their torts."[9] Cf. Caldarola v. Eckert, 332 U.S. at 159-160.
As to the second conclusion, we are unable to perceive in the statutes relating to sailors' rights or the history *790 behind their enactment any legislative purpose to create in seamen employees of the United States through the War Shipping Administration a right to enforce tort claims under the Jones Act against others than their employers or any recognition that such right ever existed. The Jones Act was welfare legislation that created new rights in seamen for damages arising from maritime torts. As welfare legislation, this statute is entitled to a liberal construction to accomplish its beneficent purposes. Compare Aguilar v. Standard Oil Co., 318 U.S. 724; American Stevedores v. Porello, 330 U.S. 446. In considering similar legislation in other fields, we have concluded that Congress intended that t