Passage 1:
is thought beyond the power of this court to now engage in such reconsideration, in view of the cited decisions of the higher authority which thus far wholly sustain the claim of [the Texas Company] to immunity from the tax here involved.
"Upon questions of federal law, citizens and their attorneys have the right to rely upon decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, and upon such questions it is our fixed duty to follow such decisions, leaving to the United States Congress or Supreme Court the making of the necessary changes in such legal rules."
From the state supreme court's decisions[16] the Oklahoma Tax Commission filed appeals in this Court. We dismissed the appeals for want of jurisdiction. But treating them as applications for certiorari,[17] we granted the writs and consolidated the cases for argument. 333 U.S. 870. The Solicitor General was requested to file a brief as amicus curiae.

I.
But for the course of decision here from Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. v. Harrison, <targetCase>235 U.S. 292</targetCase>, decided in 1914, to *350 Oklahoma v. Barnsdall Refineries, 296 U.S. 521, decided in 1936, the problems of taxation and intergovernmental immunity these cases present would seem subject to solution on well-settled or fairly obvious legal principles.
It has long been established that property owned by a private person and used by him in performing services for the Federal Government is subject to state and local ad valorem taxes.[18] And the oil and gas produced is, of course, subject to such taxation. Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Board of Equalization, 288 U.S. 325. Both by the substance of the statute's explicit provisions and by the consistent construction of the Oklahoma Supreme Court,[19] that state's so-called gross production tax in its presently applicable form is a tax on the lessee's property used in carrying out its contractual obligations with the Federal Government and on the oil and gas during the tax year in which it was produced. The tax is levied expressly
Passage 2:
une from state taxation.[24] More immediately it stems from the later ruling that allotted Indian lands held in trust by the United States were "an instrumentality employed by the United States for the benefit and control of this dependent race," and so were immune from state taxation. United States v. Rickert, 188 U.S. 432, 437-439.
In 1908 Oklahoma imposed, in addition to ad valorem property taxes, a gross production tax, the progenitor of the present tax bearing that label, on oil, gas and other minerals produced within the state. Okla. Laws, 1908, *356 c. 71, Art. II, ยง 6. The Oklahoma court held that the 1910 reenactment of the statute[25] imposed a property tax. McAlester-Edwards Coal Co. v. Trapp, 43 Okla. 510. But the statute, as applied to a lessee of restricted Indian coal lands, was held by this Court to be an occupational tax and so an unconstitutional burden on the lessee, who was held to be an instrumentality of the Federal Government. Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. v. Harrison, <targetCase>supra</targetCase>. Next the Court held the lease itself a federal instrumentality immune from state taxation. Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra.
The Oklahoma legislature revised the gross production tax statute in 1915 and again in 1916, a principal change being the provision that the tax was in lieu of all other ad valorem taxes.[26] The revised tax was held by the Oklahoma Supreme Court to be a property tax.[27] But this Court rejected that construction sub silentio and invalidated the tax in memorandum opinions citing only the Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. case (<targetCase>235 U.S. 292</targetCase>) and *357 the Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. case (240 U.S. 522). Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U.S. 503; Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U.S. 549.
Suspicions that this Court had overlooked the fact that under the revised statute the gross production tax was in lieu of rather than in addition to all other ad valorem property taxes,[28] were dispelled by Mr. Justice Holmes' remark in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra at 504-505, that the statutory change had been noticed and regarded as immaterial.[29] If a gross receipts tax was a burden on the Federal Government "so as to interfere with the performance of its functions, it could not be saved because it was in lieu of a tax upon property or was so characterized." See James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U.S. 134, 158.
The high-water mark of immunity for non-Indian lessees of restricted and allotted Indian lands came in 1922 when the Gillespie decision, supra, invalidated an Oklahoma net income tax upon income derived by a lessee from sal
Passage 3:
s been reversed in direction. True intergovernmental immunity remains for the most part. But, so far as concerns private persons claiming immunity for their ordinary business operations (even though in connection with governmental activities), no implied constitutional immunity can rest on the merely hypothetical interferences with governmental functions here asserted to sustain exemption. In the light of the broad groundings of the Mountain Producers decision and of later decisions, we cannot say that the Gipsy Oil, Large Oil and Barnsdall Refineries decisions remain immune to the effects of the Mountain Producers decision and others which have followed it. They "are out of harmony with correct principle," as were the Gillespie and Coronado decisions and, accordingly, they should be, and they now are, overruled. This accords with the result reached in Santa Rita Oil Co. v. State Board of Equalization, 112 Mont. 359. Moreover, since the decisions in Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. v. Harrison, <targetCase>supra</targetCase>, and Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra, rest upon the same foundations as those underlying the Gipsy Oil, Large Oil and Barnsdall Refineries decisions, indeed supplied those foundations, we think they too should be, and they now are, overruled.
We do not imply, by this decision, that Congress does not have power to immunize these lessees from the taxes we think the Constitution permits Oklahoma to impose in the absence of such action.[37] The question whether immunity shall be extended in situations like these is *366 essentially legislative in character. But Congress has not created an immunity here by affirmative action,[38] and "The immunity formerly said to rest on constitutional implication cannot now be resurrected in the form of statutory implication." Oklahoma Tax Commission v. United States, 319 U.S. 598, 604. And see Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U.S. 466, 480: ". . . if it appears that there is no ground for implying a constitutional immunit