Passage 1:
e[25] imposed a property tax. McAlester-Edwards Coal Co. v. Trapp, 43 Okla. 510. But the statute, as applied to a lessee of restricted Indian coal lands, was held by this Court to be an occupational tax and so an unconstitutional burden on the lessee, who was held to be an instrumentality of the Federal Government. Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. v. Harrison, supra. Next the Court held the lease itself a federal instrumentality immune from state taxation. Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra.
The Oklahoma legislature revised the gross production tax statute in 1915 and again in 1916, a principal change being the provision that the tax was in lieu of all other ad valorem taxes.[26] The revised tax was held by the Oklahoma Supreme Court to be a property tax.[27] But this Court rejected that construction sub silentio and invalidated the tax in memorandum opinions citing only the Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co. case (235 U.S. 292) and *357 the Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. case (<targetCase>240 U.S. 522</targetCase>). Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U.S. 503; Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U.S. 549.
Suspicions that this Court had overlooked the fact that under the revised statute the gross production tax was in lieu of rather than in addition to all other ad valorem property taxes,[28] were dispelled by Mr. Justice Holmes' remark in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra at 504-505, that the statutory change had been noticed and regarded as immaterial.[29] If a gross receipts tax was a burden on the Federal Government "so as to interfere with the performance of its functions, it could not be saved because it was in lieu of a tax upon property or was so characterized." See James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U.S. 134, 158.
The high-water mark of immunity for non-Indian lessees of restricted and allotted Indian lands came in 1922 when the Gillespie decision, supra, invalidated an Oklahoma net income tax upon income derived by a lessee from sales of his share of oil produced from restricted lands.
The non-Indian l
Passage 2:
more governmental in character than those performed by lessees of school lands or, indeed, by many contractors with the Government. The lessees in the Mountain Producers case stood identically with the respondents in all these respects.
Moreover the burdens of the taxes here, if any of a character likely to interfere with respondents in carrying out the terms of their leases, are as appropriately to be judged by "regard . . . to substance and direct effects," and as inappropriately to be determined "by merely theoretical conceptions of interference with the functions of government," as were those in the Mountain Producers case.[36] True, as respondents say, a net income *364 tax may be a step farther removed from interfering effect than a gross production tax or an excise tax on production. But this all depends upon the rate at which each tax is levied.
To the adaptation of Marshall's oft-quoted aphorism made by Mr. Justice McKenna in Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>240 U.S. at 530</targetCase>, and followed by Mr. Justice Holmes in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U.S. at 505, namely, that "A tax upon the leases is a tax upon the power to make them, and could be used to destroy the power to make them," Chief Justice Hughes in the Mountain Producers case did not explicitly make the rejoinder given by Holmes in another connection, "The power to tax is not the power to destroy while this Court sits." Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U.S. 218, 223. But this was the effect of the Mountain Producers decision, when in a single paragraph it challenged both the aphorism and the assumption that "a tax upon the profits of the leases" was "a direct hamper upon the effort of the United States to make the best terms that it can for its wards."
The Mountain Producers case was not decided on narrow, merely technical or presumptive grounds. Its very foundation was a repudiation of those insubstantial bases for securing broad private tax exemptions, unjustified by actual interfering or destructive e
Passage 3:
ts conclusion in these cases that "Congress has acted on the theory that such immunity exists in the case of leases of this character unless waived," that is, several congressional enactments permit Oklahoma to impose a gross production tax on minerals produced from the lands of the Osages,[39] the Kaws,[40] the Quapaws,[41] and the Five Civilized Tribes,[42] and authorize payment of taxes due on account of the Indians' royalty interest. But Congress' purpose in enacting these statutes was the removal of the immunities of the Indians themselves, immunities which are not challenged in these cases; the action was occasioned by the favorable economic *367 position of the particular Indians.[43] The resulting removal of the immunity of private lessees of those Indian lands was an incidental effect of this legislation.
Finally, we refuse to infer from mere congressional silence approval of the doctrine of immunity enunciated in the Choctaw, O. & G.R. Co., Indian Territory Illuminating Oil (<targetCase>240 U.S. 522</targetCase>), Gipsy Oil, Large Oil and Barnsdall Refineries decisions, supra. Congress' silence prior to the Mountain Producers decision did not preclude this Court from curtailing the lessee's immunity in that case; and Congress seems to have accepted that decision with equanimity. Cf. Girouard v. United States, 328 U.S. 61, 69-70; Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U.S. 466, 479-480.[44]
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
NOTES
[*]  Together with No. 41, Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., also on certiorari to the same court.
[1]  Interests in the lands to which the United States does not hold title are of two kinds: (1) undivided interests acquired by non-Indians; (2) an interest (which is still restricted) conveyed to the son of an allottee by approved noncompetent Indian deeds, pursuant to the Act of March 1, 1907, 34 Stat. 1018, 25 U.S.C. ยง 405.
[2]  February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, as amended, 25 U.S.C. ยง 331 et seq.
[3]  The allotments we