Passage 1:
make it governed either by Arkansas or Louisiana—but not Missouri—law. Cf. Johnson v. Great Lakes Pipe Line Co., 358 Mo. 445, 215 S.W.2d 460.
The Missouri workmen's compensation statute provides that "Where a third person is liable to the employee . . . for the injury or death, the employer shall be subrogated. . . and the recovery by such employer shall not be limited to the amount payable as compensation to such employee . . . ." Mo. Rev. Stat., 1949, § 287.150. The Missouri Supreme Court has read this provision as allowing a common-law action by a worker against a negligent third party, e. g., Schumacher v. Leslie, 360 Mo. 1238, 232 S.W.2d 913, on the theory that the worker may secure common-law recovery against anyone " `upon whom no liability could be entailed under the Act,' " 360 Mo., at 1246, 232 S. W. 2d, at 918.
But the Missouri Supreme Court has held that a prime contractor is not liable as a third party for his negligence to an employee of a subcontractor. Bunner v. Patti, <targetCase>343 Mo. 274</targetCase>, <targetCase>121 S.W.2d 153</targetCase>; see also New Amsterdam Casualty Co. v. Boaz-Kiel Construction Co., 115 F.2d 950 (C. A. 8th Cir.). And this because prime contractors are subject to liability under the workmen's compensation statute, which states: "Any person who has work done under contract on or about his premises which is an operation of the usual business which he there carries on shall be deemed an employer and shall be liable under this chapter to such contractor, his subcontractors, and their employees, when injured or killed on or about the premises of the employer . . . . [T]he immediate contractor . . . shall be liable as an employer of the employees of his subcontractors.. . . No such employer shall be liable . . . if *425 the employee was insured by his immediate or any intermediate employer." Mo. Rev. Stat., 1949, § 287.040.
The rationale of the Missouri decisions prohibiting a negligence action against a prime contractor is this: a person clearly subject to statutory liability cannot be sued as a third
Passage 2:
. 102, 131 S.W.2d 558. Thus there is no warrant for believing that the Missouri courts would refuse to allow suit against him as an ordinary third party. Presumably, then, Carroll could sue Lanza under either Missouri or Arkansas law for his negligence. *426 Accordingly, the constitutional question presented should not be passed on.
But we ought not to rest on the initial determination of Missouri law here. In a number of the full faith and credit cases this Court has remanded for further consideration of state law. E. g., Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Elec. Mfg. Co., supra; Griffin v. McCoach, supra; Clark v. Williard, supra. Hence, I would remand this case to the Court of Appeals with instructions to determine whether our reading of Missouri law is wrong.
NOTES
[1]  The Missouri Supreme Court has construed the Missouri Compensation Act as providing the exclusive remedy, even when, as here, the employee of the subcontractor sues the general contractor for common-law damages. Bunner v. Patti, <targetCase>343 Mo. 274</targetCase>, 283, <targetCase>121 S.W.2d 153</targetCase>, 156-157. The touchstone seems to be the existence of a Missouri employment contract, such as exists in the present case, wherever the injury may have occurred. We can find no suggestion in the Missouri cases that the Missouri Compensation Act is not the exclusive remedy against the prime contractor when his contract with the subcontractor is made outside Missouri. No such suggestion is made by any of the parties to this litigation.
[2]  Hogan and his Indemnity Company, intervenors, were granted a lien on the judgment in favor of Carroll for the amounts paid to Carroll as compensation.
[3]  Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution provides:

"Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof."
[1]  Two other groups of cases do not here concern us: those holding that a full f