Passage 1:
a taxpayer receives earnings under a claim of right and without *257 restriction as to its [sic] disposition, he has received income which he is required to return, even though it may still be claimed that he is not entitled to retain the money, and even though he may still be adjudged liable to restore its equivalent." Id., at 424. (Emphasis added.) But embezzled funds, like stolen property generally, are not "earnings" in any sense and are held without a vestige of a colorable claim of right; they constitute the principal of a debt. Of no significance whatever is the formality of "consensual recognition, express or implied" of an obligation to repay. By substituting this meaningless abstraction in place of the omitted portion of the North American Oil test of when a receipt constitutes taxable income, the prevailing opinion today goes far beyond overruling Wilcox—it reduces a substantial body of tax law into uncertainty and confusion. The above-cited case of United States v. Lewis, <targetCase>340 U.S. 590</targetCase>, decided 19 years after North American Oil, demonstrates the truth of this. For there we said:
"The `claim of right' interpretation of the tax laws has long been used to give finality to [the accounting] period, and is now deeply rooted in the federal tax system. . . . We see no reason why the Court should depart from this well-settled interpretation merely because it results in an advantage or disadvantage to a <targetCase>taxpayer." 340 U.S., at 592</targetCase>.
The same principle was reiterated and applied in Healy v. Commissioner, 345 U.S. 278.
The supposed conflict between Wilcox and Rutkin, upon which THE CHIEF JUSTICE's opinion seeks to justify its repudiation of Wilcox,[7] has been adequately treated in *258 the opinion of MR. JUSTICE BLACK, and I agree with him that those cases were fully intended to be, and are, reconcilable, both on their controlling facts and applicable law. If the unnecessarily broad language used in the Rutkin opinion has misled any of the lower federal courts in their understanding of the principles underlying Wilcox, we should clarify their understanding at this time, and continue our adherence to "a prior doctrine more embracing in its scope, intrinsically sounder, and verified by experience." Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U.S. 106, 119.
NOTES
[1]  § 22. Gross Income.

"(a) General Definition—`Gross income' includes gains, profits, and income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service . . .
Passage 2:
e costs of prosecution." (26 U.S. C. (1952 ed.) § 145 (b).)
[5]  § 7201. Attempt to Evade or Defeat Tax.

"Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution." (26 U.S. C. § 7201.)
[6]  The dissenters in Rutkin stated that the Court had rejected the Wilcox interpretation of § 22 (a). Id., at 140.
[7]  The Government contends that the adoption in Wilcox of a claim of right test as a touchstone of taxability had no support in the prior cases of this Court; that the claim of right test was a doctrine invoked by the Court in aid of the concept of annual accounting, to determine when, not whether, receipts constituted income. See North American Oil v. Burnet, 286 U.S. 417; United States v. Lewis, <targetCase>340 U.S. 590</targetCase>; Healy v. Commissioner, 345 U.S. 278. In view of our reasoning set forth below, we need not pass on this contention. The use to which we put the claim of right test here is only to demonstrate that, whatever its validity as a test of whether certain receipts constitute income, it calls for no distinction between Wilcox and Rutkin.
[8]  In Marienfeld v. United States, 214 F.2d 632, the Eighth Circuit stated, "We find it difficult to reconcile the Wilcox case with the later opinion of the Supreme Court in Rutkin . . . ." Id., at 636. The Second Circuit announced, in United States v. Bruswitz, 219 F.2d 59, "It is difficult to perceive what, if anything, is left of the Wilcox holding after Rutkin . . . ." Id., at 61. The Seventh Circuit's prior decision in Macias v. Commissioner, 255 F.2d 23, observed, "If this reasoning [of Rutkin] had been employed in Wilcox, we see no escape from the conclusion that the decision in that case would have been different. In our view, the Court in Rutkin r
Passage 3:
[Rutkin] induced Reinfeld to consent to pay the money by creating a fear in Reinfeld that harm otherwise would come to him and to his family. Reinfeld thereupon delivered his own money to petitioner. Petitioner's control over the cash so received was such that, in the absence of Reinfeld's unlikely repudiation of the transaction and demand for the money's return, petitioner could enjoy its use as fully as though his title to it were unassailable." Rutkin v. United States, 343 U.S. 130, 136-137. (Emphasis supplied.)
[27]  The analogy between the borrower and the embezzler was lucidly analyzed by Judge Sibley in McKnight v. Commissioner, 127 F.2d 572, 573-574.

The several cases relied on by the Court do not, in our judgment, justify imposing a tax upon embezzled money. Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U.S. 376, involved income accumulating in a trust fund belonging to the taxpayer and over which he retained control. North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet, 286 U.S. 417; United States v. Lewis, <targetCase>340 U.S. 590</targetCase>; and Healy v. Commissioner, 345 U.S. 278, were cases in which the taxpayer had asserted a bona fide, though mistaken, claim of right. In North American Oil, the taxpayer not only had a bona fide claim to the money taxed, but there had been an adjudication that he was entitled to it, and there was only the tenuous possibility that a competing claimant might later upset that adjudication. The Lewis and Healy cases involved a tax on payments made and received as a result of mutual mistake, and it was held that the administration of the tax laws on an annual basis need not be upset for the convenience of those who caused the mistaken payments to be made and reported as income. By contrast, the victims do not cause embezzlements, and the Government is not misled or inconvenienced under Wilcox because the embezzler is always fully aware that the embezzled funds are not rightfully his and presumably will not report otherwise.
[28]  See the dissenting opinion in Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U.S.