Passage 1:
JUSTICE HARLAN, and MR. JUSTICE STEWART join, dissenting.
"A bill of attainder is a legislative act which inflicts punishment without a judicial trial." Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 323. When an enactment is challenged as an attainder, the central inquiry must be whether the disability imposed by the act is "punishment" (i. e., is directed at an individual or a group of individuals) or is "regulation" (i. e., is directed at controlling future conduct). Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U.S. 603, at 613-614; accord, Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 95-96 (WARREN, C. J., announcing judgment). Whether a punitive purpose would be inferred has depended in past cases on a number of circumstances, including the nature of the disability, whether it was traditionally regarded as punishment, whether it is rationally connected to a permissible legislative objective, as well as the specificity of the legislature's *463 designation of the persons to be affected. See generally Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, <targetCase>372 U.S. 144</targetCase>, 168-169.
In this case, however, the Court discards this meticulous multifold analysis that has been deemed necessary in the past. Instead the Court places the burden of separating attainders from permissible regulation on an examination of the legislative findings implied by the nature of the class designated. The Bill of Attainder Clause, the Court says, was intended to implement the separation of powers by confining the legislature to rule-making and preventing legislative invasion of a function left exclusively to the courts—fact-finding connected with applications of a general rule to individuals or groups. Section 504 of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act is therefore a bill of attainder because in pursuit of its purpose of preventing political strikes, it has specified the persons—Communist Party members—who are to be disqualified from holding union office, rather than excluding all persons who might engage in the undesirable conduct. The vice in § 504 is that it
Passage 2:
ll of attainder as legislative punishment of particular individuals. In my view, § 504 does not impose punishment and is not a bill of attainder.
*476 We have said that "only the clearest proof could suffice" to establish that Congress' purpose was punitive rather than regulatory. Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U.S. 603, 617. A punitive purpose has been found when it could be said that a statute passed amid the fierce passions aroused by the Civil War bore no rational connection to any permissible legislative purpose. Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 319, 322; see Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U.S. 114, 128; Hawker v. New York, 170 U.S. 189, 198. The imposition of a particularly harsh deprivation without any discernible legitimate legislative purpose has similarly been characterized as penal. Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86 (WARREN, C. J., announcing judgment). Similarly a punitive purpose has been found when such a purpose clearly appeared in the legislative history. Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, <targetCase>372 U.S. 144</targetCase>, 169; United States v. Lovett, 328 U.S. 303, 308-314. In other cases the analysis is more difficult. We summarized the relevant considerations in Kennedy v. <targetCase>Mendoza-Martinez, supra</targetCase>:
"Whether the sanction involves an affirmative disability or restraint, whether it has historically been regarded as a punishment, whether it comes into play only on a finding of scienter, whether its operation will promote the traditional aims of punishment— retribution and deterrence, whether the behavior to which it applies is already a crime, whether an alternative purpose to which it may rationally be connected is assignable for it, and whether it appears excessive in relation to the alternative purpose assigned are all relevant to the inquiry, and may often point in differing <targetCase>directions." 372 U.S., at 168-169</targetCase>.
An application of these criteria to § 504 compels the conclusion that it is regulatory rather than punitive.
Congress' concern with the possibility of political strikes is not simply a fictional concern advanced to mask a punitive *477 purpose. Congress has sought to forestall political strikes since 1947, when it adopted § 9 (h) of the National Labor Relations Act, which was sustained as a reasonable regulation in American Communications Assn. v. Douds, 339 U.S. 382. Section 504 was adopted as a fairer and more effective method of dealing with the same evil. H. R. Rep. No. 741, 86th Cong., 1st Sess. (1959), p. 33; 1 Leg. Hist. LMRDA 791. Section 9 (h) had proved ineffective because many Communists would take the prescribed oath, which meant the only sanction available was a perjury prosecution that presented serious difficulties of proof. See Hearings before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, Communist Infiltration of Vital Industries and Current Communist Techniques in