Passage 1:
tiorari was filed here. We granted the petition, 389 U.S. 896 (1967), to consider whether, because of facts to which we later refer, the Court of Appeals' dismissal conformed to our holding in Nowakowski v. Maroney, 386 U.S. 542 (1967). But first we must consider the State's contention that this case is now moot because petitioner has been unconditionally released from custody.
Petitioner applied to the United States District Court for a writ of habeas corpus in June 1963. He was in custody at that time. On March 6, 1967, petitioner's sentence expired,[2] and he was discharged from the parole status in which he had been since October 4, 1964. We issued our writ of certiorari on October 16, 1967 (389 U.S. 896).
*237 The issue presented, then, is whether the expiration of petitioner's sentence, before his application was finally adjudicated and while it was awaiting appellate review, terminates federal jurisdiction with respect to the application. Respondent relies upon Parker v. Ellis, <targetCase>362 U.S. 574 </targetCase>(1960), and unless this case is overruled, it stands as an insuperable barrier to our further consideration of petitioner's cause or to the grant of relief upon his petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
Parker v. Ellis held that when a prisoner was released from state prison after having served his full sentence, this Court could not proceed to adjudicate the merits of the claim for relief on his petition for habeas corpus which he had filed with the Federal District Court. This Court held that upon petitioner's unconditional release the case became "moot." Parker was announced in a per curiam decision.[3]
It is clear that petitioner's cause is not moot. In consequence of his conviction, he cannot engage in certain businesses;[4] he cannot serve as an official of a labor union for a specified period of time;[5] he cannot vote in any election held in New York State;[6] he cannot serve as a juror.[7] Because of these "disabilities or burdens [which] may flow from" petitioner's conviction
Passage 2:
t's summary action. Anything less than this, as we held in Nowakowski, would negate the office of the certificate of probable cause. Indeed, it appears that since Nowakowski, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has accorded this effect to that ruling. The State informs us that "it appears to be the policy of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that in cases where habeas corpus appeals have been dismissed, reargument will be granted and the appeal reinstated where the time to apply for certiorari had not expired prior to the decision in Nowakowski." Brief for respondent 22-23.
Accordingly, the judgment below is vacated and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE STEWART, concurring.
Although we joined the per curiam decision in Parker v. Ellis, <targetCase>362 U.S. 574</targetCase>, we are now persuaded that what the Court there decided was wrong insofar as it held that even though a man be in custody when he initiates *243 a habeas corpus proceeding, the statutory power of the federal courts to proceed to a final adjudication of his claims depends upon his remaining in custody. Consequently we concur in the opinion and judgment of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN also notes that his views upon the issue discussed in his separate concurring opinion in Parker, id., at 576, have not changed.
NOTES
[1]  The New York Court of Appeals amended its remittitur to reflect that it had passed on petitioner's constitutional claim. 11 N.Y. 2d 969, 183 N.E.2d 697 (1962).
[2]  It appears that petitioner was on bail after conviction until this Court denied his earlier petition for a writ of certiorari. 372 U.S. 948 (March 18, 1963).
[3]  THE CHIEF JUSTICE and JUSTICES BLACK, DOUGLAS, and BRENNAN dissented.
[4]  E. g., New York Education Law §§ 6502, 6702; New York General Business