Passage 1:
CE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner was convicted in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut under two indictments which charged violations of the federal wagering tax statutes. The first indictment averred that petitioner and others conspired to evade payment of the annual occupational tax imposed by 26 U.S. C. § 4411. The second indictment included two counts: the first *41 alleged a willful failure to pay the occupational tax, and the second a willful failure to register, as required by 26 U.S. C. § 4412, before engaging in the business of accepting wagers.
After verdict, petitioner unsuccessfully sought to arrest judgment, in part on the basis that the statutory obligations to register and to pay the occupational tax violated his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed, 352 F.2d 848, on the authority of United States v. Kahriger, 345 U.S. 22, and Lewis v. United States, <targetCase>348 U.S. 419</targetCase>.
We granted certiorari to re-examine the constitutionality under the Fifth Amendment of the pertinent provisions of the wagering tax statutes, and more particularly to consider whether Kahriger and Lewis still have vitality.[1] 383 U.S. 942. For reasons which follow, we have *42 concluded that these provisions may not be employed to punish criminally those persons who have defended a failure to comply with their requirements with a proper assertion of the privilege against self-incrimination. The judgment below is accordingly reversed.

I.
The provisions in issue here are part of an interrelated statutory system for taxing wagers. The system is broadly as follows. Section 4401 of Title 26 imposes upon those engaged in the business of accepting wagers an excise tax of 10% on the gross amount of all wagers they accept, including the value of chances purchased in lotteries conducted for profit. Parimutuel wagering enterprises, coin-operated devices, and state-conducted sweepstakes are ex
Passage 2:
Kahriger, supra, at 34 (concurring opinion). In these circumstances, we cannot conclude that his failure *51 to assert the privilege to Treasury officials at the moment the tax payments were due irretrievably abandoned his constitutional protection. Petitioner is under sentence for violation of statutory requirements which he consistently asserted at and after trial to be unconstitutional; no more can here be required.
The Court held in Lewis that the registration and occupational tax requirements do not infringe the constitutional privilege because they do not compel self-incrimination, but merely impose on the gambler the initial choice of whether he wishes, at the cost of his constitutional privilege, to commence wagering activities. The Court reasoned that even if the required disclosures might prove incriminating, the gambler need not register or pay the occupational tax if only he elects to cease, or never to begin, gambling. There is, the Court said, "no constitutional right to <targetCase>gamble." 348 U.S., at 423</targetCase>.
We find this reasoning no longer persuasive. The question is not whether petitioner holds a "right" to violate state law, but whether, having done so, he may be compelled to give evidence against himself. The constitutional privilege was intended to shield the guilty and imprudent as well as the innocent and foresighted; if such an inference of antecedent choice were alone enough to abrogate the privilege's protection, it would be excluded from the situations in which it has historically been guaranteed, and withheld from those who most require it. Such inferences, bottomed on what must ordinarily be a fiction, have precisely the infirmities which the Court has found in other circumstances in which implied or uniformed waivers of the privilege have been said to have occurred. See, e. g., Carnley v. Cochran, 369 U.S. 506. Compare Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U.S. 458; and Glasser v. United States, 315 U.S. 60. To give credence to such "waivers" without the most deliberate examination of the
Passage 3:
is case.
[For concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, see post, p. 72.]
[For concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE STEWART, see post, p. 76.]
[For dissenting opinion of MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN, see post, p. 77.]
NOTES
[1]  Certiorari was originally granted in Costello v. United States, 383 U.S. 942, to consider these issues. Upon Costello's death, certiorari was granted in the present case. 385 U.S. 1000. Marchetti and Costello, with others, were convicted at the same trial of identical offenses, arising from the same series of transactions. Certiorari both here and in Costello was limited to the following questions: "Do not the federal wagering tax statutes here involved violate the petitioner's privilege against self-incrimination guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment? Should not this Court, especially in view of its recent decision in Albertson v. Subversive Activities Control Board, 382 U.S. 70 (1965), overrule United States v. Kahriger, 345 U.S. 22 (1953), and Lewis v. United States, <targetCase>348 U.S. 419 </targetCase>(1955)?" After argument, the case was restored to the calendar, and set for reargument at the 1967 Term. 388 U.S. 903. Counsel were asked to argue, in addition to the original questions, the following: "(1) What relevance, if any, has the required records doctrine, Shapiro v. United States, 335 U.S. 1, to the validity under the Fifth Amendment of the registration and special occupational tax requirements of 26 U.S. C. §§ 4411, 4412? (2) Can an obligation to pay the special occupational tax required by 26 U.S. C. § 4411 be satisfied without filing the registration statement provided for by 26 U.S. C. § 4412?"
[2]  A July 1963 revision of Form 11-C modified the form of certain of its questions. The record does not indicate which version of the return was available to petitioner at the time of the omissions for which he was convicted. The minor verbal variations between the two do not affect the result which we reach today.
[3]  The Treasury Regulations provide that a stamp, evidencing pa