Passage 1:
or petitioners.
Robert H. Schlosser argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief was Gary K. Nelson, Attorney General of Arizona.
*638 Briefs of amici curiae were filed by David A. Binder, Raine Eisler, and Paul L. McKaskle for the Western Center on Law and Poverty et al., and by William D. Browning for the National Organization for Women.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case raises an important issue concerning the construction of the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution— whether Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28-1163 (B) (1956), which is part of Arizona's Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act, is invalid under that clause as being in conflict with the mandate of § 17 of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S. C. § 35, providing that receipt of a discharge in bankruptcy fully discharges all but certain specified judgments. The courts below, concluding that this case was controlled by Kesler v. Department of Public Safety, 369 U.S. 153 (1962), and Reitz v. Mealey, <targetCase>314 U.S. 33 </targetCase>(1941), two earlier opinions of this Court dealing with alleged conflicts between the Bankruptcy Act and state financial responsibility laws, ruled against the claim of conflict and upheld the Arizona statute.
On July 8, 1965, petitioner Adolfo Perez, driving a car registered in his name, was involved in an automobile accident in Tucson, Arizona. The Perez automobile was not covered by liability insurance at the time of the collision. The driver of the second car was the minor daughter of Leonard Pinkerton, and in September 1966 the Pinkertons sued Mr. and Mrs. Perez in state court for personal injuries and property damage sustained in the accident. On October 31, 1967, the petitioners confessed judgment in this suit, and a judgment order was entered against them on November 8, 1967, for $2,425.98 plus court costs.
Mr. and Mrs. Perez each filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy in Federal District Court on November 6, 1967. Each of them duly scheduled the judgment debt *639 to the Pin
Passage 2:
ation . . . embodied in its bankruptcy laws." Id., at 185.
The opinion of the Court in Reitz was similarly concerned, not with the fact that New York's financial responsibility law frustrated the operation of the Bankruptcy Act, but with the purpose of the law, which was divined as the promotion of highway safety. As the Court said:
"The penalty which § 94-b imposes for injury due to careless driving is not for the protection of the creditor merely, but to enforce a public policy that irresponsible drivers shall not, with impunity, be allowed to injure their fellows. The scheme of the legislation would be frustrated if the reckless driver were permitted to escape its provisions by the simple expedient of voluntary bankruptcy, and, accordingly, the legislature declared that a discharge in bankruptcy should not interfere with the operation of the statute. Such legislation is not in derogation of the Bankruptcy Act. Rather it is an enforcement of permissible state policy touching highway <targetCase>safety." 314 U.S., at 37</targetCase>.
The dissenting opinion written by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS for himself and three others noted that the New York legislation put "the bankrupt . . . at the creditor's mercy," with the results that "[i]n practical effect the bankrupt may be in as bad, or even worse, a position than if the state had made it possible for a creditor to attach his future wages" and that "[b]ankruptcy . . . [was not] the sanctuary for hapless debtors which Congress intended." Id., at 41.
We can no longer adhere to the aberrational doctrine of Kesler and Reitz that state law may frustrate the operation of federal law as long as the state legislature in passing its law had some purpose in mind other than *652 one of frustration. Apart from the fact that it is at odds with the approach taken in nearly all our Supremacy Clause cases, such a doctrine would enable state legislatures to nullify nearly all unwanted federal legislation by simply publishing a legislative committee report articulating some state interest o
Passage 3:
Copper Co., 91 U.S. 656, 661 (1876), and "unrestricted and paramount," International Shoe Co. v. Pinkus, 278 U.S. 261, 265 (1929); that one of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act is to "relieve the honest debtor from the weight of oppressive indebtedness and permit him to start afresh . . . ," Williams v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 236 U.S. 549, 554-555 (1915); and that a bankrupt by his discharge receives "a new opportunity in life and a clear field for future effort, unhampered by the pressure and discouragement of pre&emul;xisting debt," Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U.S. 234, 244 (1934).
From these general and accepted principles it is argued that § 28-1163 (B), with its insistence upon post-discharge payment as a condition for license and registration restoration, is violative of the Bankruptcy Act and, thus, of the Supremacy Clause.
As Mr. Perez acknowledges in his brief here, the argument is not new. It was raised with respect to a New York statute in Reitz v. Mealey, <targetCase>314 U.S. 33 </targetCase>(1941), and was rejected there by a five-to-four vote:
"The use of the public highways by motor vehicles, with its consequent dangers, renders the reasonableness and necessity of regulation apparent. The universal practice is to register ownership of automobiles and to license their drivers. Any appropriate means adopted by the states to insure competence and care on the part of its licensees *661 and to protect others using the highway is consonant with due process. . . .
.....
"The penalty which § 94-b imposes for injury due to careless driving is not for the protection of the creditor merely, but to enforce a public policy that irresponsible drivers shall not, with impunity, be allowed to injure their fellows. The scheme of the legislation would be frustrated if the reckless driver were permitted to escape its provisions by the simple expedient of voluntary bankruptcy, and, accordingly, the legislature declared that a discharge in bankruptcy should not interfere with the operation of the statute. Such legislation is not in derogation of the Bankruptcy Act. Rather it is an enforcement of permissible state policy touching highway <targetCase>safety." 314 U.S., at 36-37</targetCase>.
Left specifically unanswered in that case, but acknowledged as a "serious <targetCase>question," 314 U.S., at 38</targetCase>, was the claim that interim amendments of the statutes gave the creditor control over the initiation and duration of the suspension and thus violated the Bankruptcy Act. The dissenters, speaking through MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concluded that that constitutional issue "cannot be escaped. . . unless we are to overlook the realities of collection <targetCase>methods." 314 U.S., at 43</targetCase>.
Nine years ago, the same argument again was advanced, this time with respect to Utah's Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act, and again was rejected. Kesler v. Department of Public Safety, 369 U.S. 153, 158-174 (1962). There, Utah's provisions relating to duration of suspension and restoration, more stringent than those of New York, were challenged. It was claimed that the statutes made the State a "collecting agent for the creditor rather than furthering an interest in highway safety," *662 and that suspension that could be perpetual "only renders the collection pressure more effective." 369 U.S., at 169. There was a troublesome jurisdictional issue in the case, the decision as to which was later overruled, Swift & Co. v. Wickham, 382 U.S. 111, 124-129 (1965), but on the merits the Court, by a five-to-three vote, sustained all the Utah statutes then under attack:[4]
"But the lesson Zavelo [v. Reeves, 227 U.S. 625 (1913)] and Spalding [v. New York ex rel. Backus, 4 How. 21 (1845)]
Passage 4:
s me to adhere to the Reitz-Kesler rationale for Adolfo, is drained of all force and persuasion when applied to the innocent Emma. Despite the underlying community property legal theory, Emma had an incident of ownership in the family automobile only because it was acquired during coverture. She had no "control" over Adolfo's use of the vehicle and she could not forbid his use as she might have been able to do were it her separate property. Thus, the state purpose in deterring the reckless driver and his unsafe driving has only undeserved punitive application to Emma. She is personally penalized not only with respect to the operation of the Perez car but also with respect to any automobile.
I therefore would hold that under these circumstances the State's action, under § 28-1163 (B), in withholding from Emma her operator's license is not, within the language of Reitz, an appropriate means for Arizona "to insure competence and care on the part of [Emma] and to protect others" using the <targetCase>highways, 314 U.S., at 36</targetCase>, and that it interferes with the paramount federal interest in her bankruptcy discharge and violates the Supremacy Clause.
[For Appendix to opinion of BLACKMUN, J., see post, p. 672.]
*672
NOTES
[1]  See Reviser's Note, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28-1101.
[2]  Under Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28-1143 (A), the owner or operator of a car involved in an accident need not post security as required by § 28-1142 (Supp. 1970-1971): (1) if the accident caused injury or damage to no person or property other than the owner's car or the operator's person; (2) if the car was parked when involved in the accident, unless it was parked illegally or did not carry a legally sufficient complement of lights; (3) if the car was being driven or was parked by another without the owner's express or implied permission; (4) if prior to date for suspension the person whose license or registration would be suspended files with the superintendent a release, a final adjudication of nonliability, a confession of judgmen