Passage 1:
since 1789, Congress has granted this Court the power to intervene *160 in State litigation only after `the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had' has rendered a `final judgment or decree.' ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U.S. C. ยง 344 (a). This requirement is not one of those technicalities to be easily scorned. It is an important factor in the smooth working of our federal system."
But, as he pointed out, this concept of "finality" has a "penumbral area." Ibid. Speaking for the Court in that case, he held that Nebraska's ruling on the legality of a radio license issued by the Federal Communications Commission could be reviewed even though the state court had not yet determined the final accounting. He stated: "Of course, where the remaining litigation may raise other federal questions that may later come here . . . to allow review of an intermediate adjudication would offend the decisive objection to fragmentary reviews." Id., at 127.
Mills v. Alabama, <targetCase>384 U.S. 214</targetCase>, involved the constitutionality of a state statute in effect making it a crime for a newspaper editor on election day to urge people to vote a certain way on the issues being submitted. The state court held the act did not violate the Federal Constitution and remanded the case for trial. It was argued that the judgment was not "final" for purposes of 28 U.S. C. ยง 1257. We noted that the point had "a surface plausibility, since it is true the judgment of the State Supreme Court did not literally end the <targetCase>case." 384 U.S., at 217</targetCase>. We held it "final," however, because if the Act were constitutional the editor would in reality have no defense. Since conviction seemed likely, we concluded that to deny review at that stage would "result in a completely unnecessary waste of time and energy in judicial systems already troubled by delays due to congested dockets." Id., at 217-218.
In Hudson Distributors, Inc. v. Eli Lilly & Co., 377 U.S. 386, the question on the merits was whether the requirement *161 of a state act setting minimum retail prices was consonant with federal law. The state court held the state act constitutional under both the State and the Federal Constitutions and remanded the case for further proceedings. In reliance on Curry and on Langdeau[4] we held that the fact that there were to be further proceedings in the state court did not render the state judgment "nonfinal or unappealable within the meaning of 28 U.S. C. ยง 1257." Id., at 389 n. 4.
The exceptions noted[5] have a long lineage dating back *