Passage 1:
an administrative hearing on the application, sans the constitutional issue, pursuant to our Administrative Agencies Practice Act," 202 N.W.2d 140, 145 (italics added).
The case is here on a petition for certiorari which we granted, 411 U.S. 947.


*159 I
We are met at the outset with a suggestion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of North Dakota is not "final" within the meaning of 28 U.S. C. ยง 1257 which restricts our jurisdiction to review state court decisions.[3]
The finality requirement of 28 U.S. C. ยง 1257, which limits our review of state court judgments, serves several ends: (1) it avoids piecemeal review of state court decisions; (2) it avoids giving advisory opinions in cases where there may be no real "case" or "controversy" in the sense of Art. III; (3) it limits review of state court determinations of federal constitutional issues to leave at a minimum federal intrusion in state affairs.
Mr. Justice Frankfurter, writing for the Court in Radio Station WOW v. Johnson, <targetCase>326 U.S. 120</targetCase>, 124, summarized the requirement by Congress that in appeals from federal district courts as well as in review of state court decisions the judgments be "final":
"This requirement has the support of considerations generally applicable to good judicial administration. It avoids the mischief of economic waste and of delayed justice. Only in very few situations, where intermediate rulings may carry serious public consequences, has there been a departure from this requirement of finality for federal appellate jurisdiction. This prerequisite to review derives added force when the jurisdiction of this Court is invoked to upset the decision of a State court. Here we are in the realm of potential conflict between the courts of two different governments. And so, ever since 1789, Congress has granted this Court the power to intervene *160 in State litigation only after `the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had' has rendered a `final judgment or decree.' ยง 237 of