Passage 1:
"from the States . . . power to regulate where the activity regulated [is] a merely peripheral concern of the Labor Management Relations Act." Id., at 243.[3]
*138 Cases that have held state authority to be pre-empted by federal law tend to fall into one of two categories: (1) those that reflect the concern that "one forum would enjoin, as illegal, conduct which the other forum would find legal" and (2) those that reflect the concern "that the [application of state law by] state courts would restrict the exercise of rights guaranteed by the Federal Acts." Automobile Workers v. Russell, 356 U.S. 634, 644 (1958). "[I]n referring to decisions holding state laws pre-empted by the NLRA, care must be taken to distinguish pre-emption based on federal protection of the conduct in question . . . from that based predominantly on the primary jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Board . . . , although the two are often not easily separable." Railroad Trainmen v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., <targetCase>394 U.S. 369</targetCase>, 383 n. 19 (1969). Each of these distinct aspects of labor law pre-emption has had its own history in our decisions, to which we now turn.
We consider first pre-emption based predominantly on the primary jurisdiction of the Board. This line of pre-emption analysis was developed in San Diego Unions v. Garmon, supra, and its history was recently summarized in Motor Coach Employees v. Lockridge, 403 U.S. 274, 290-291 (1971):
"[V]arying approaches were taken by the Court in initially grappling with this pre-emption problem. Thus, for example, some early cases suggested the true distinction lay between judicial application of general common law, which was permissible, as opposed to state rules specifically designed to regulate *139 labor relations, which were pre-empted. See, e. g., Automobile Workers v. Russell, 356 U.S. 634, 645 (1958). Others made pre-emption turn on whether the States purported to apply a remedy not provided for by the federal scheme, e. g., Weber v. Anheuser-Busch, In
Passage 2:
nion v. Morton that the refusal to work overtime was affirmatively "permitted" under federal law, stating: "Congress has not `focused upon' partial . . . strikes," and therefore "[p]olicing of such conduct is left wholly to the states." 67 Wis. 2d, at 26, 226 N. W. 2d, at 209.
Since Briggs-Stratton is today overruled, and as we hold further that the Union's refusal to work overtime is peaceful conduct constituting activity which must be free of regulation by the States if the congressional intent in enacting the comprehensive federal law of labor relations is not to be frustrated, the judgment of the Wisconsin Supreme Court is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins, concurring.
The Court correctly identifies the critical inquiry with respect to pre-emption as whether "the exercise of plenary state authority to curtail or entirely prohibit self-help would frustrate effective implementation of the Act's processes." Railroad Trainmen v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., <targetCase>394 U.S. 369</targetCase>, 380 (1969). See ante, at 147-148.
This is equally true whether the self-help activities *156 are those of the employer or the Union. I agree with the Court that the Wisconsin law, as applied in this case, is pre-empted since it directly curtails the self-help capability of the Union and its members, resulting in a significant shift in the balance of free economic bargaining power struck by Congress. I write to make clear my understanding that the Court's opinion does not, however, preclude the States from enforcing, in the context of a labor dispute, "neutral" state statutes or rules of decision: state laws that are not directed toward altering the bargaining positions of employers or unions but which may have an incidental effect on relative bargaining strength. Except where Congress has specifically provided otherwise, the States generally should remain free to enforce, for example, their law of torts or of contracts, and other laws reflecting neutral public policy.[*] See Cox, Lab
Passage 3:
fare,' if you prefer—is thought to be the course of regulatory wisdom."
[5]  It is true, of course, that the seeds of the Garmon "primary jurisdiction of the NLRB" approach to labor law pre-emption are also contained within the Garner opinion. See, in addition to the textual quotation, Garner, 346 U. S., at 490-491.
[6]  Although Mr. Justice Harlan took issue with the statement in Garmon that States may "be powerless to act when the underlying activities are clearly `neither protected nor prohibited' by the federal Act," 359 U.S., at 253 (concurring in result), his later opinions make plain that the point of disagreement concerned the use of the term "protected" rather than the substantive concept.

"In the context of labor relations law, this word is fraught with ambiguity. `Protected conduct' may, for example, refer to employee conduct which the States may not prohibit, . . . or to conduct against which the employer may not retaliate." Railroad Trainmen v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., <targetCase>394 U.S. 369</targetCase>, 382 n. 17 (1969). Indeed, Mr. Justice Harlan thereafter expressly adopted the Garmon formulation. Hanna Mining v. Marine Engineers, 382 U. S., at 187.
It has been suggested that rather than "protected," `[p]ermitted activities' would be better shorthand for this category of employee conduct because it may be—indeed is—protected against state, but not employer interference." Cox, supra, n. 4, at 1346 (footnote omitted).
[7]  "[T]he Taft-Hartley Act was, to a marked degree, the result of conflict and compromise between strong contending forces and deeply held views on the . . . appropriate balance to be struck between the uncontrolled power of management and labor to further their respective interest." Carpenters Union v. NLRB, 357 U.S. 93, 99-100 (1958).
[8]  See also NLRB v. Truck Drivers Union, 353 U.S. 87, 96 (1957):

"Although the Act protects the right of the employees to strike in support of their demands, this protection is not so absolute as to deny self-help by employers when