Passage 1:
433 U.S. 36 (1977)
CONTINENTAL T. V., INC., ET AL.
v.
GTE SYLVANIA INC.
No. 76-15.
Supreme Court of the United States.
Argued February 28, 1977.
Decided June 23, 1977.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
*37 Glenn E. Miller argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Lawrence A. Sullivan and Jesse Choper.
M. Laurence Popofsky argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief were Richard L. Goff and Stephen V. Bomse.[*]
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
Franchise agreements between manufacturers and retailers frequently include provisions barring the retailers from selling franchised products from locations other than those specified in the agreements. This case presents important questions concerning the appropriate antitrust analysis of these restrictions under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U.S. C. § 1, and the Court's decision in United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., <targetCase>388 U.S. 365 </targetCase>(1967).


*38 I
Respondent GTE Sylvania Inc. (Sylvania) manufactures and sells television sets through its Home Entertainment Products Division. Prior to 1962, like most other television manufacturers, Sylvania sold its televisions to independent or company-owned distributors who in turn resold to a large and diverse group of retailers. Prompted by a decline in its market share to a relatively insignificant 1% to 2% of national television sales,[1] Sylvania conducted an intensive reassessment of its marketing strategy, and in 1962 adopted the franchise plan challenged here. Sylvania phased out its wholesale distributors and began to sell its televisions directly to a smaller and more select group of franchised retailers. An acknowledged purpose of the change was to decrease the number of competing Sylvania retailers in the hope of attracting the more aggressive and competent retailers thought necessary to the improvement of the company's market position.[2] To this end, Sylvania limite
Passage 2:
ny that handled the credit arrangements between Sylvania and its retailers. Shortly thereafter, Sylvania terminated Continental's franchises, and Maguire filed this diversity action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking recovery of money owed and of secured merchandise held by Continental.
The antitrust issues before us originated in cross-claims brought by Continental against Sylvania and Maguire. Most important for our purposes was the claim that Sylvania had violated § 1 of the Sherman Act by entering into and enforcing franchise agreements that prohibited the sale of Sylvania products other than from specified locations.[8] At the close of evidence in the jury trial of Continental's claims, Sylvania requested the District Court to instruct the jury that its location restriction was illegal only if it unreasonably restrained or suppressed competition. App. 5-6, 9-15. Relying on this Court's decision in United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & <targetCase>Co., supra</targetCase>, the District Court rejected the proffered instruction in favor of the following one:
"Therefore, if you find by a preponderance of the evidence that Sylvania entered into a contract, combination or conspiracy with one or more of its dealers pursuant to which Sylvania exercised dominion or control over the *41 products sold to the dealer, after having parted with title and risk to the products, you must find any effort thereafter to restrict outlets or store locations from which its dealers resold the merchandise which they had purchased from Sylvania to be a violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, regardless of the reasonableness of the location restrictions." App. 492.
In answers to special interrogatories, the jury found that Sylvania had engaged "in a contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade in violation of the antitrust laws with respect to location restrictions alone," and assessed Continental's damages at $591,505, which was trebled pursuant to 15 U.S. C. §
Passage 3:
t on appeal by the United States from the District Court's decision. Abandoning its per se theories, the Government argued that Schwinn's prohibition against distributors' and retailers' selling Schwinn bicycles to nonfranchised retailers was unreasonable under § 1 and that the District Court's injunction against exclusive distributor territories should extend to all such restrictions regardless of the form of the transaction. The Government did not challenge the District Court's decision on price fixing, and Schwinn did not challenge the decision on exclusive distributor territories.
The Court acknowledged the Government's abandonment of its per se theories and stated that the resolution of the case would require an examination of "the specifics of the challenged practices and their impact upon the marketplace in order to make a judgment as to whether the restraint is or is not `reasonable' in the special sense in which § 1 of the Sherman Act must be read for purposes of this type of <targetCase>inquiry." 388 U.S., at 374</targetCase>. Despite this description of its task, the Court proceeded to articulate the following "bright line" per se rule of illegality for vertical restrictions: "Under the Sherman Act, it is unreasonable without more for a manufacturer to seek to restrict and confine areas or persons with whom an article may be traded after the manufacturer has parted with dominion over it." Id., at 379. But the Court expressly stated that the rule of reason governs when "the manufacturer retains title, dominion, and risk with *45 respect to the product and the position and function of the dealer in question are, in fact, indistinguishable from those of an agent or salesman of the manufacturer." Id., at 380.
Application of these principles to the facts of Schwinn produced sharply contrasting results depending upon the role played by the distributor in the distribution system. With respect to that portion of Schwinn's sales for which the distributors acted as ordinary wholesalers, buying and reselling Schwinn
Passage 4:
ntial for intrabrand harm or interbrand benefit. Restrictions that completely eliminated intrabrand competition among Schwinn distributors were analyzed no differently from those that merely moderated intrabrand competition among retailers. The pivotal factor was the passage of title: All restrictions were held to be per se illegal where title had passed, and all were evaluated and sustained under the rule of reason where it had not. The location restriction at issue here would be subject to the same pattern of analysis under Schwinn.
It appears that this distinction between sale and nonsale transactions resulted from the Court's effort to accommodate the perceived intrabrand harm and interbrand benefit of vertical restrictions. The per se rule for sale transactions reflected the view that vertical restrictions are "so obviously destructive" of intrabrand competition[20] that their use would "open the door to exclusivity of outlets and limitation of territory *53 further than prudence <targetCase>permits." 388 U.S., at 379-380</targetCase>.[21] Conversely, the continued adherence to the traditional rule of reason for nonsale transactions reflected the view that the restrictions have too great a potential for the promotion of interbrand competition to justify complete prohibition.[22]*54 The Court's opinion provides no analytical support for these contrasting positions. Nor is there even an assertion in the opinion that the competitive impact of vertical restrictions is significantly affected by the form of the transaction. Non-sale transactions appear to be excluded from the per se rule, not because of a greater danger of intrabrand harm or a greater promise of interbrand benefit, but rather because of the Court's unexplained belief that a complete per se prohibition would be too "inflexibl[e]." Id., at 379.
Vertical restrictions reduce intrabrand competition by limiting the number of sellers of a particular product competing for the business of a given group of buyers. Location restrictions have this effect because of
Passage 5:
th its articulated concern for the ability of smaller firms to compete effectively with larger ones. Capital requirements and administrative expenses may prevent smaller firms from using the exception for nonsale transactions. See, e. g., Baker, supra, n. 13, at 538; Phillips, Schwinn Rules and the "New Economics" of Vertical *57 Relation, 44 Antitrust L. J. 573, 576 (1975); Pollock, supra, n. 13, at 610.[26]
We conclude that the distinction drawn in Schwinn between sale and nonsale transactions is not sufficient to justify the application of a per se rule in one situation and a rule of reason in the other. The question remains whether the per se rule stated in Schwinn should be expanded to include nonsale transactions or abandoned in favor of a return to the rule of reason. We have found no persuasive support for expanding the per se rule. As noted above, the Schwinn Court recognized the undesirability of "prohibit[ing] all vertical restrictions of territory and all franchising . . . <targetCase>." 388 U.S., at 379-380</targetCase>.[27] And even Continental does not urge us to hold that all such restrictions are per se illegal.
We revert to the standard articulated in Northern Pac. R. Co., and reiterated in White Motor, for determining whether vertical restrictions must be "conclusively presumed to be unreasonable and therefore illegal without elaborate inquiry as to the precise harm they have caused or the business excuse for their use." 356 U.S., at 5. Such restrictions, in varying forms, are widely used in our free market economy. As indicated above, there is substantial scholarly and judicial authority *58 supporting their economic utility. There is relatively little authority to the contrary.[28] Certainly, there has been no showing in this case, either generally or with respect to Sylvania's agreements, that vertical restrictions have or are likely to have a "pernicious effect on competition" or that they "lack . . . any redeeming virtue." Ibid.[29] Accordingly, we conclude that the per se rule stated in S
Passage 6:
the rule-of-reason standard *59 must be based upon demonstrable economic effect rather than—as in Schwinn—upon formalistic line drawing.
In sum, we conclude that the appropriate decision is to return to the rule of reason that governed vertical restrictions prior to Schwinn. When anticompetitive effects are shown to result from particular vertical restrictions they can be adequately policed under the rule of reason, the standard traditionally applied for the majority of anticompetitive practices challenged under § 1 of the Act. Accordingly, the decision of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring in the judgment.
Although I agree with the majority that the location clause at issue in this case is not a per se violation of the Sherman Act and should be judged under the rule of reason, I cannot agree that this result requires the overruling of United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., <targetCase>388 U.S. 365 </targetCase>(1967). In my view this case is distinguishable from Schwinn because there is less potential for restraint of intrabrand competition and more potential for stimulating interbrand competition. As to intrabrand competition, Sylvania, unlike Schwinn, did not restrict the customers to whom or the territories where its purchasers could sell. As to interbrand competition, Sylvania, unlike Schwinn, had an insignificant market share at the time it adopted its challenged distribution practice and enjoyed no consumer preference that would allow its retailers to charge a premium over other brands. In two short paragraphs, the majority disposes of the view, adopted after careful analysis by the Ninth Circuit en banc below, that these differences provide a "principled basis for distinguishing Schwinn," ante, at 46, despite holdings by three Courts of Appeals and the District Court on remand in Schwinn that *60 the per se rule established in that case does not apply to location clauses such as Sylva
Passage 7:
: 1974, 75 Colum. L. Rev. 243, 278 (1975) (outcome in Sylvania not preordained by Schwinn because of marked differences in the vertical restraints in the two cases); McLaren, Territorial and Customer Restrictions, Consignments, Suggested Retail Prices and Refusals to Deal, 37 Antitrust L. J. 137, 144-145 (1968) (by implication Schwinn exempts location clauses from its per se rule); Pollock, Alternative Distribution Methods After Schwinn, 63 Nw. U. L. Rev. 595, 603 (1968) ("Nor does the Schwinn doctrine outlaw the use of a so-called `location clause' . . .").
Just as there are significant differences between Schwinn and this case with respect to intrabrand competition, there are also significant differences with respect to interbrand competition. Unlike Schwinn, Sylvania clearly had no economic power in the generic product market. At the time they instituted their respective distribution policies, Schwinn was "the leading bicycle producer in the Nation," with a national market share of <targetCase>22.5%, 388 U.S., at 368</targetCase>, 374, whereas Sylvania was a "faltering, if not failing" producer of television sets, with "a relatively insignificant 1% to 2%" share of the national market in which the dominant manufacturer had a 60% to 70% share. Ante, at 38, 58 n. 29. Moreover, the Schwinn brand name enjoyed superior consumer acceptance and commanded a premium price as, in the District Court's words, "the Cadillac of the bicycle industry." 237 F. Supp., at 335. This premium gave Schwinn dealers a margin of *64 protection from interbrand competition and created the possibilities for price cutting by discounters that the Government argued were forestalled by Schwinn's customer restrictions.[3] Thus, judged by the criteria economists use to measure market power—product differentiation and market share[4]—Schwinn enjoyed a substantially stronger position in the bicycle market than did Sylvania in the television market. This Court relied on Schwinn's market position as one reason not to apply the rule of reason to the vertical restraints challenged there. "Schwinn was not a newcomer, seeking to break into or stay in the bicycle business. It was not a `failing company.' On the contrary, at the initiation of these practices, it was the leading bicycle producer in the <targetCase>Nation." 388 U.S., at 374</targetCase>. And the Court of Appeals below found "another significant distinction between our case and Schwinn" in Sylvania's "precarious market share," which "was so small when it adopted its locations practice that it was threatened with expulsion from the television market." 537 F.2d, at 991.[5]
*65 In my view there are at least two considerations, both relied upon by the majority to justify overruling Schwinn, that would provide a "principled basis" for instead refusing to extend Schwinn to a vertical restraint that is imposed by a "faltering" manufacturer with a "precarious" position in a generic product market dominated by another firm. The first is that, as the majority puts it, "when interbrand competition exists, as it does among television manufacturers, it provides a significant check on the exploitation of intrabrand market power because of the ability of consumers to substitute a different brand of the same product." Ante, at 52 n. 19. See also ante, at 54.[6] Second is the view, ar
Passage 8:
ng an undue percentage share of the relevant market. . . ." I see no doctrinal obstacle to excluding firms with such minimal market power as Sylvania's from the reach of the Schwinn rule.[8]
I have, moreover, substantial misgivings about the approach the majority takes to overruling Schwinn. The reason for the distinction in Schwinn between sale and nonsale transactions was not, as the majority would have it, "the Court's effort to accommodate the perceived intrabrand harm and interbrand benefit of vertical restrictions," ante, at 52; the reason was rather, as Judge Browning argued in dissent below, the notion in many of our cases involving vertical restraints that independent *67 businessmen should have the freedom to dispose of the goods they own as they see fit. Thus the first case cited by the Court in Schwinn for the proposition that "restraints upon alienation . . . are beyond the power of the manufacturer to impose upon its vendees and . . . are violations of § 1 of the Sherman <targetCase>Act," 388 U.S., at 377</targetCase>, was this Court's seminal decision holding a series of resale-price-maintenance agreements per se illegal, Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U.S. 373 (1911). In Dr. Miles the Court stated that "a general restraint upon alienation is ordinarily invalid," citing Coke on Littleton, and emphasized that the case involved "agreements restricting the freedom of trade on the part of dealers who own what they sell." Id., at 404, 407-408. Mr. Justice Holmes stated in dissent: "If [the manufacturer] should make the retail dealers also agents in law as well as in name and retain the title until the goods left their hands I cannot conceive that even the present enthusiasm for regulating the prices to be charged by other people would deny that the owner was acting within his rights." Id., at 411.
This concern for the freedom of the businessman to dispose of his own goods as he sees fit is most probably the explanation for two subsequent cases in which the Court allowed manufactu
Passage 9:
Although *70 the majority asserts that "the per se illegality of price restrictions. . . involves significantly different questions of analysis and policy," ante, at 51 n. 18, I suspect this purported distinction may be as difficult to justify as that of Schwinn under the terms of the majority's analysis. Thus Professor Posner, in an article cited five times by the majority, concludes: "I believe that the law should treat price and nonprice restrictions the same and that it should make no distinction between the imposition of restrictions in a sale contract and their imposition in an agency contract." Posner, supra, n. 7, at 298. Indeed, the Court has already recognized that resale price maintenance may increase output by inducing "demand-creating activity" by dealers (such as additional retail outlets, advertising and promotion, and product servicing) that out-weighs the additional sales that would result from lower prices brought about by dealer price competition. Albrecht v. Herald <targetCase>Co., supra</targetCase>, at 151 n. 7. These same output-enhancing possibilities of nonprice vertical restraints are relied upon by the majority as evidence of their social utility and economic soundness, ante, at 55, and as a justification for judging them under the rule of reason. The effect, if not the intention, of the Court's opinion is necessarily to call into question the firmly established per se rule against price restraints.
Although the case law in the area of distributional restraints has perhaps been less than satisfactory, the Court would do well to proceed more deliberately in attempting to improve it. In view of the ample reasons for distinguishing Schwinn from this case and in the absence of contrary congressional action, I would adhere to the principle that
"each case arising under the Sherman Act must be determined upon the particular facts disclosed by the record, and . . . the opinions in those cases must be read in the light of their facts and of a clear recognition of the essential differences in the facts of those cases, and in the facts of any new case to which the rule of earlier decisions *71 is to be aplied." Maple Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v. United States, 268 U.S. 563, 579 (1925).
In order to decide this case, the Court need only hold that a location clause imposed by a manufacturer with negligible economic power in the product market has a competitive impact sufficiently less restrictive than the Schwinn restraints to justify a rule-of-reason standard, even if the same weight is given here as in Schwinn to dealer autonomy. I therefore concur in the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL joins, dissenting.
I would not overrule the per se rule stated in United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., <targetCase>388 U.S. 365 </targetCase>(1967), and would therefore reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
NOTES
[*]  Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by Lawrence T. Zimmerman for the Associated Equipment Distributors; by Lloyd N. Cutler, James S. Campbell, William T. Lake, and Donald F. Turner for the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Assn.; and by Philip F. Zeidman and John A. Dienelt for the International Franchise Assn.
[1]  RCA at that time was the dominant firm with as much as 60% to 70% of national television sales in an industry with more than 100 manufacturers.
[2]  The number of retailers selling Sylvania products declined significantly as a result of the change, but in 1965 there were at least two franchised Sylvania retailers in each metropolitan center of more than 100,000 population.
[3]  Sylvania imposed no restrictions on the right of the franchisee to sell the products of competing manufacturers.
[4]  Sylvania's market share in San Francisco was approximately 2.5%—ha
Passage 10:
is in Schwinn. The intrabrand competitive impact of the restrictions at issue in Schwinn ranged from complete elimination to mere reduction; yet, the Court did not even hint at any distinction on this ground. Similarly, there is no suggestion that the per se rule was applied because of Schwinn's prominent position in its industry. That position was the same whether the bicycles were sold or consigned, but the Court's analysis was quite different. In light of MR. JUSTICE WHITE'S emphasis on the "superior consumer acceptance" enjoyed by the Schwinn brand name, post, at 63, we note that the Court rejected precisely that premise in Schwinn. Applying the rule of reason to the restrictions imposed in nonsale transactions, the Court stressed that there was "no showing that [competitive bicycles were] not in all respects reasonably interchangeable as articles of competitive commerce with the Schwinn product" and that it did "not regard Schwinn's claim of product excellence as establishing the <targetCase>contrary." 388 U.S., at 381</targetCase>, and n. 7. Although Schwinn did hint at preferential treatment for new entrants and failing firms, the District Court below did not even submit Sylvania's claim that it was failing to the jury. Accordingly, MR. JUSTICE WHITE'S position appears to reflect an extension of Schwinn in this regard. Having crossed the "failing firm" line, MR. JUSTICE WHITE attempts neither to draw a new one nor to explain why one should be drawn at all.
[13]  A former Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division has described Schwinn as "an exercise in barren formalism" that is "artificial and unresponsive to the competitive needs of the real world." Baker, Vertical Restraints in Times of Change: From White to Schwinn to Where?, 44 Antitrust L. J. 537 (1975). See, e. g., Handler, The Twentieth Annual Antitrust Review—1967, 53 Va. L. Rev. 1667 (1967); McLaren, Territorial and Customer Restrictions, Consignments, Suggested Retail Prices and Refusals to Deal, 37 Antitrust L. J. 137 (1968); Po
Passage 11:
tomer Restrictions in the Franchising Industry, 10 Colum. J. L. & Soc. Prob. 497 (1974); Note, Territorial and Customer Restrictions: A Trend Toward a Broader Rule of Reason?, 40 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 123 (1971); Note, Territorial Restrictions and Per Se Rules—A Re-evaluation of the Schwinn and Sealy Doctrines, 70 Mich. L. Rev. 616 (1972). But see Louis, Vertical Distributional Restraints Under Schwinn and Sylvania: An Argument for the Continuing Use of a Partial Per Se Approach, 75 Mich. L. Rev. 275 (1976); Zimmerman, Distribution Restrictions After Sealy and Schwinn, 12 Antitrust Bull. 1181 (1967). For a more inclusive list of articles and comments, see 537 F.2d, at 988 n. 13.
[14]  Indeed, as one commentator has observed, many courts "have struggled to distinguish or limit Schwinn in ways that are a tribute to judicial ingenuity." Robinson, supra, n. 13, at 272. Thus, the statement in Schwinn that post-sale vertical restrictions as to customers or territories are "unreasonable without <targetCase>more," 388 U.S., at 379</targetCase>, has been interpreted to allow an exception to the per se rule where the manufacturer proves "more" by showing that the restraints will protect consumers against injury and the manufacturer against product liability claims. See, e. g., Tripoli Co. v. Wella Corp., 425 F.2d 932, 936-938 (CA3 1970) (en banc). Similarly, the statement that Schwinn's enforcement of its restrictions had been "`firm and <targetCase>resolute,'" 388 U.S., at 372</targetCase>, has been relied upon to distinguish cases lacking that element. See, e. g., Janel Sales Corp. v. Lanvin Parfums, Inc., 396 F.2d 398, 406 (CA2 1968). Other factual distinctions have been drawn to justify upholding territorial restrictions that would seem to fall within the scope of the Schwinn per se rule. See, e. g., Carter-Wallace, Inc. v. United States, 196 Ct. Cl. 35, 44-46, 449 F.2d 1374, 1379-1380 (1971) (per se rule inapplicable when purchaser can avoid restraints by electing to buy product at higher price); Colorado Pump & Supply Co. v. Febco, Inc., 472 F.2d 637 (CA10 1973) (apparent territorial restriction characterized as primary responsibility clause). One Court of Appeals has expressly urged us to consider the need in this area for greater flexibility. Adolph Coors Co. v. FTC, 497 F.2d 1178, 1187 (CA10 1974). The decision in Schwinn and the developments in the lower courts have been exhaustively surveyed in ABA Antitrust Section, Monograph No. 2, Vertical Restrictions Limi
Passage 12:
ast, intrabrand competition is the competition between the distributors—wholesale or retail—of the product of a particular manufacturer.

The degree of intrabrand competition is wholly independent of the level of interbrand competition confronting the manufacturer. Thus, there may be fierce intrabrand competition among the distributors of a product produced by a monopolist and no intrabrand competition among the distributors of a product produced by a firm in a highly competitive industry. But when interbrand competition exists, as it does among television manufacturers, it provides a significant check on the exploitation of intrabrand market power because of the ability of consumers to substitute a different brand of the same product.
[20]  The Court did not specifically refer to intrabrand competition, but this meaning is clear from the context.
[21]  The Court also stated that to impose vertical restrictions in sale transactions would "violate the ancient rule against restraints on <targetCase>alienation." 388 U.S., at 380</targetCase>. This isolated reference has provoked sharp criticism from virtually all of the commentators on the decision, most of whom have regarded the Court's apparent reliance on the "ancient rule" as both a misreading of legal history and a perversion of antitrust analysis. See, e. g., Handler, supra, n. 13, at 1684-1686; Posner, supra, n. 13, at 295-296; Robinson, supra, n. 13, at 270-271; but see Louis, supra, n. 13, at 276 n. 6. We quite agree with MR. JUSTICE STEWART'S dissenting comment in Schwinn that "the state of the common law 400 or even 100 years ago is irrelevant to the issue before us: the effect of the antitrust laws upon vertical distributional restraints in the American economy <targetCase>today." 388 U.S., at 392</targetCase>.

We are similarly unable to accept Judge Browning's interpretation of Schwinn. In his dissent below he argued that the decision reflects the view that the Sherman Act was intended to prohibit restrictions on the autonomy of independent businessmen even though they have no impact on "price, quality, and quantity of goods and services," 537 F.2d, at 1019. This view is certainly not explicit in Schwinn, which purports to be based on an examination of the "impact [of the restrictions] upon the <targetCase>marketplace." 388 U.S., at 374</targetCase>. Competitive economies have social and political as well as economic advantages, see c. g., Northern Pac. R. Co. v. United States, 356 U. S., at 4, but an antitrust policy divorced from market considerations would lack any objective bench-marks. As Mr. Justice Brandeis reminded us: "Every agreement concerning trade, every regulation of trade, restrains. To bind, to restrain, is of their very essence." Chicago Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S., at 238. Although MR. JUSTICE WHITE'S opinion endorses Judge Browning's interpretation, post, at 66-68, it purports to distinguish Schwinn on grounds inconsistent with that interpretation, post, at 71.
[22]  In that regard, the Court specifically stated that a more complete prohibition "might severely hamper smaller enterprises resorting to reasonable methods of meeting the competition of giants and of merchandising through independent <targetCase>dealers." 388 U.S., at 380</targetCase>. The Court also broadly hinted that it would recognize additional exceptions to the per se rule for new entrants in an industry and for failing firms, both of which were mentioned in White Motor as candidates for such <targetCase>exceptions. 388 U.S., at 374</targetCase>. The Court might have limited the exceptions to the per se rule to these situations, which present the strongest arguments for the sacrifice of intrabrand competition for interbrand competition. Significantly, it chose instead to create the more extensive exception for nonsale transactions which is available to all businesses, regardless of their size, financial health, or market share. This broader exception demonstrates even more clearly the Court's awareness of the "redeeming virtues" of vertical restrictions.
[23]  Marketing efficiency is not the only legitimate reason for a manufacturer's desire to exert control over the manner in which his products are sold and serviced. As a result of statutory and common-law developments, society increasingly demands that manufacturers assume direct responsibility for the safety and quality of their products. For example, at the federal level, apart from more specialized requirements, manufacturers of consumer products have safety responsibili
Passage 13:
we think it would be unduly artificial to deny it the use of valuable competitive tools.
[30]  The importance of stare decisis is, of course, unquestioned, but as Mr. Justice Frankfurter stated in Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U.S. 106, 119 (1940), "stare decisis is a principle of policy and not a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision, however recent and questionable, when such adherence involves collision with a prior doctrine more embracing in its scope, intrinsically sounder, and verified by experience."
[1]  The franchised retailers would be prevented from engaging in discounting themselves if, under the Colgate doctrine, see infra, at 67, the manufacturer could lawfully terminate dealers who did not adhere to his suggested retail price.
[2]  Given the Government's emphasis on the inhibiting effect of the Schwinn restrictions on discounting activities, the Court may well have been referring to this effect when it condemned the restrictions as "obviously destructive of <targetCase>competition." 388 U.S., at 379</targetCase>. But the Court was also heavily influenced by its concern for the freedom of dealers to control the disposition of products they purchased from Schwinn. See infra, at 66-69. In any event, the record in Schwinn illustrates the potentially greater threat to intrabrand competition posed by customer as opposed to location restrictions.
[3]  Relying on the finding of the District Court, the Government argued:

"[T]he declared purpose of the Schwinn franchising system [was] to establish and exploit a distinctive identity and superior consumer acceptance for the Schwinn brand name as the Cadillac of bicycles, thereby enabling the charging of a premium price. . . . This scheme could not possibly succeed, and doubtless would long ago have been abandoned, if in the consumer's mind other bicycles were just as good as Schwinn's." Brief for United States, O. T. 1966, No. 25, p. 36.
[4]  See, e. g., F. Scherer, Industrial Market Structure and Economics Performance 10-11 (1970); P. Samuelson, Economics 485-491 (10th ed. 1976).
[5]  Schwinn's national market share declined to 12.8% in the 10 years following the institution of its distribution program, at which time it ranked second behind a firm with a 22.8% <targetCase>share. 388 U.S., at 368-369</targetCase>. In the three years following the adoption of its locations practice, Sylvania's national market share increased to 5%, placing it eighth among manufacturers of color television sets. Ante, at 38-39. At this time Sylvania's shares of the San Francisco, Sacramento, and northern California markets were respectively 2.5%, 15%, and 5%. Ante, at 39 nn. 4, 6. The District Court made no findings as to Schwinn's share of local bicycle markets.
[6]  For an extensive discussion of this effect of interbrand competition, see ABA Antitrust Section, Monograph No. 2, Vertical Restrictions Limiting Intrabrand Competition 60-67 (1977).
[7]  Preston, Restrictive Distribution Arrangements: Economic Analysis and Public Policy Standards, 30 Law & Contemp. Prob. 506, 511 (1965); Posner, Antitrust Policy and the Supreme Court: An Analysis of the Restricted Distribution, Horizontal Merger and Potential Competition Decisions, 75 Colum. L. Rev. 282, 293 (1975); Scherer, supra, n. 4, at 510.
[8]  Cf. Sandura Co