Passage 1:
ppers Cooperative Ass'n v. Schumacher, 59 Wash. 2d 159, 167, 367 P.2d 112, 115-116 (1961)), we must nevertheless hold the instant tax on stevedoring invalid." 88 Wash. 2d, at 318-320, 559 P.2d, at 998-999.
The two dissenting justices would have upheld the tax against the Commerce Clause attack on the ground that recent cases had eroded the direct-indirect taxation analysis employed in the Stevedoring Cases. They found no violation of the Import-Export Clause because the State had taxed only the activity of stevedoring, not the imports or exports themselves. Even if stevedoring were considered part of interstate or foreign commerce, the Washington tax was valid because it did not discriminate against importing or exporting, did not impair transportation, did not impose multiple burdens, and did not *743 regulate commerce. 88 Wash. 2d, at 320-322, 559 P.2d, at 999-1000.
Because of the possible impact on the issues made by our intervening decision in Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, <targetCase>430 U.S. 274 </targetCase>(1977), filed after the Washington Supreme Court's ruling, we granted certiorari. 434 U.S. 815 (1977).

II

The Commerce Clause

A
In Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, the Court invalidated the Washington business and occupation tax on stevedoring only because it applied directly to interstate commerce. Stevedoring was interstate commerce, according to the Court, because:
"Transportation of a cargo by water is impossible or futile unless the thing to be transported is put aboard the ship and taken off at destination. A stevedore who in person or by servants does work so indispensable is as much an agency of commerce as shipowner or master." 302 U.S., at 92.
Without further analysis, the Court concluded:
"The business of loading and unloading being interstate or foreign commerce, the State of Washington is not at liberty to tax the privilege of doing it by exacting in return therefor a percentage of the gross receipts. Decisions to that effect are many and controlling." I
Passage 2:
he freedom of interstate commerce.' Freeman v. Hewit [329 U.S. 249,] 256." 330 U.S., at 433.
Because the tax in the present case is indistinguishable from the taxes at issue in Puget Sound and in Carter & Weekes, the Stevedoring Cases control today's decision on the Commerce Clause issue unless more recent precedent and a new analysis require rejection of their reasoning.
We conclude that Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, where the Court held that a State under appropriate conditions may tax directly the privilege of conducting interstate business, requires such rejection. In Complete Auto, Mississippi levied a gross-receipts tax on the privilege of doing business within the State. It applied the tax to the appellant, a Michigan corporation transporting motor vehicles manufactured outside Mississippi. After the vehicles were shipped into Mississippi by railroad, the appellant moved them by truck to Mississippi dealers. This Court assumed that appellant's activity was in interstate <targetCase>commerce. 430 U.S., at 276 </targetCase>n. 4.
The Mississippi tax survived the Commerce Clause attack. Absolute immunity from state tax did not exist for interstate businesses because it "`"was not the purpose of the commerce clause to relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their just share of state tax burden even though it increases the cost of doing business."'" Id., at 288, quoting Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S., at 254, and Colonial Pipeline Co. v. Traigle, 421 U.S. 100, 108 (1975). The Court therefore specifically overruled Spector Motor Service, Inc. v. O'Connor, 340 U.S. 602 (1951), where a direct gross-receipts tax on the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce had been <targetCase>invalidated. 430 U.S., at 288-289</targetCase>.
The principles of Complete Auto also lead us now to question the underpinnings of the Stevedoring Cases. First, Puget Sound invalidated the Washington tax on stevedoring activity only because it burdened the privilege of engaging in interstate *746 commerce. Because Complete Auto permits a State properly to tax the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce, the basis for the holding in Puget Sound is removed completely.[15]
Second, Carter & Weekes supported its reaffirmance of Puget Sound by arguing that a direct privilege tax would threaten multiple burdens on interstate commerce to a greater extent than would taxes on local activity connected to commerce. But Complete Auto recognized that errors of apportionment that may lead to multiple burdens may be corrected when they <targetCase>occur. 430 U.S., at 288-289</targetCase>, n. 15.[16]
The argument of Carter & Weekes was an abstraction. No multiple burdens were demonstrated. When a general business tax levies only on the value of services performed within the State, the tax is properly apportioned and multiple burdens *747 logically cannot occur.[17] The reasoning of Carter & Weekes, therefore, no longer supports automatic tax immunity for stevedoring from a levy such as the Washington business and occupation tax.
Third, Carter & Weekes reaffirmed Puget Sound on a basis rejected by Complete Auto and previous cases. Carter & Weekes considered any direct tax on interstate commerce to be unconstitutional because it burdened or interfered with commerce. 330 U.S., at 433. In support of that conclusion, the Court there cited only Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U.S. 761, 767 (1945), the case where Arizona's limitations on the length of trains were invalidated. In Southern Pacific, however, the Court had not struck down the legislation merely because it burdened interstate commerce. Instead, it weighed the burden against the State's interests in limiting the size of trains:
"The decisive question is whether in the circumstances the total effect of the law as a safety measure in reducing accidents and casualties is so slight or problematical as not to outweigh the national interest in keeping interstate commerce free . . . ." Id., at 775-776.
Only after concluding that railroad safety was not advanced by the regulations, did the Court invalidate them. They contravened the Commerce Clause because the burden on interstate commerce outweighed the State's interests.
*748 Although the balancing of safety interests naturally differs from the balancing of state financial needs, Complete Auto recognized that a State has a significant interest in exacting from interstate commerce its fair share of the cost of state <targetCase>government. 430 U.S., at 288</targetCase>. Accord, Colonial Pipeline Co. v. Traigle, 421 U. S., at 108; Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S., at 254. All tax burdens do not impermissibly impede interstate commerce. The Commerce Clause balance tips against the tax only when it unfairly burdens commerce by exacting more than a just share from the interstate activity. Again, then, the analysis of Carter & Weekes must be rejected.

B
Respondents' additional arguments do not demonstrate the wisdom of, or need for, preserving the Stevedoring Cases. First, respondents attempt to distinguish so-called movement cases, in which tax immunity has been broad, from nonmovement cases, in which the immunity traditionally has been narrower. Brief for Respondents 23-28. Movement cases involve taxation on transport, such as the Texas tax on a natural gas pipeline in Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Co. v. Calvert, 347 U.S. 157 (1954). Nonmovement cases involve taxation on commerce that does not move goods, such as the New Mexico tax on publishing newspapers and magazines in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue. This distinction, however, disregards Complete Auto, a movement case which held that a state privilege tax on the business of moving goods in interstate commerce is not per se unconstitutional.
Second, respondents would distinguish Complete Auto on the ground that it concerned only intrastate commerce, that is, the movement of vehicles from a Mississippi railhead to Mississippi dealers. Brief for Respondents 26-28. This purported distinction ignores two facts. In Complete Auto, we expressly assumed that the activity was interstate, a segment of the movement of vehicles from the out-of-state manufacturer *749 to the in-state <targetCase>dealers. 430 U.S., at 276 </targetCase>n. 4. Moreover, the stevedoring activity of respondents occurs completely within the State of Washington, even though the activity is a part of interstate or foreign commerce. The situation was the same in Complete Auto, and that case, thus, is not distinguishable from the present one.
Third, respondents suggest that what they regard as such an important change in Commerce Clause jurisprudence should come from Congress and not from this Court. To begin with, our rejection of the Stevedoring Cases does not effect a significant present change in the law. The primary alteration occurred in Complete Auto. Even if this case did effect an important change, it would not offend the separation-of-powers principle because it does not restrict the ability of Congress to regulate commerce. The Commerce Clause does not state a prohibition; it merely grants specific power to Congress. The prohibitive effect of the Clause on state legislation results from the Supremacy Clause and the decisions of thi
Passage 3:
The nondiscriminatory ad valorem property tax in Michelin was held not to violate any of those policies, but the Court suggested that even a nondiscriminatory tax on goods merely in transit through the State might run afoul of the Import-Export Clause.
The question the Court addresses today in Part III-B is whether the business tax at issue here is such a tax upon goods in transit. The Court gives a negative answer, apparently for two reasons. The first is that Canton R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U.S. 511 (1951), indicates that this is a tax "not on the goods but on the handling of them at the port." Id., at 514 (emphasis in original). While Canton R. Co. provides precedential support for the proposition that a tax of this kind is not invalid under the Import-Export Clause, its rather artificial distinction between taxes on the handling of the goods and taxes on the goods themselves harks back to the arid "direct-indirect" distinction that we rejected in Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, <targetCase>430 U.S. 274 </targetCase>(1977), in favor of analysis framed in light of economic reality.
The Court's second reason for holding that the instant tax is not one on goods in transit has the surface appearance of economic-reality analysis, but turns out to be the "direct-indirect" test in another guise. The Court likens this tax to the one at issue in Canton R. Co. and declares that since "[t]axation in neither setting relates to the value of the goods, . . . in neither can it be considered taxation upon the goods themselves." *763 Ante, at 757. That this distinction has no economic significance is apparent from the fact that it is possible to design transit fees that are imposed "directly" upon the goods, even though the amount of the exaction bears no relation to the value of the goods. For example, a State could levy a transit fee of $5 per ton or $10 per cubic yard. These taxes would bear no more relation to the value of the goods than does the tax at issue here, which is based on the volume of the stevedori
Passage 4:
. the compensation received by a contracting stevedoring company for loading and unloading cargo from vessels where such cargo is moving in interstate or foreign commerce and where the work is actually directed and controlled by the stevedoring company . . . ." Id., at 137 (1939).
[10]  Rules and Regulations Relating to the Revenue Act of 1935, Rule 193, p. 94 (1943), and id., Rule 193, p. 123 (1970).
[11]  In a reply brief, respondents supported the continuing validity of the Stevedoring Cases. In particular, they argued:

"Final, and we think conclusive, proof of the continued vitality of the stevedoring cases lies in the language of Spector Motor Service, Inc. v. O'Connor, 340 U.S. 602 . . . (1951), decided after all four of the `major' cases relied on by the State. We have previously noted that Spector struck down a tax on the activity of moving goods in interstate commerce." Record 69 (emphasis in original).
Spector was overruled last Term in Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, <targetCase>430 U.S. 274</targetCase>, 288-289 (1977), decided after respondents advanced the above argument.
[12]  In its oral decision the Superior Court noted its doubt about the continued validity of the Stevedoring Cases:

"It would seem to the Court . . . that there certainly is a swing away from the Puget Sound and Carter and Weekes cases . . . ." App. 8. "It sticks in this Court's mind, however, that there has to be a reason, of which is beyond the ability of this Court to comprehend, that everyone has shied from the stevedoring cases, and many minds obviously more brilliant than mine have not been able to overturn those cases directly in thirty-eight years . . . ." Id., at 11. "Under those circumstances the Court does hold that the Puget Sound and Carter and Weekes cases are the law of the land, as exemplified by those decisions; that they have not been reversed by implication, nor has there been an invitation to anyone to reverse those cases." Id., at 13-14.
[13]  The court stated, 88 Wash. 2d, at 318, 559 P.2d,