Passage 1:
435 U.S. 734 (1978)
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE OF WASHINGTON
v.
ASSOCIATION OF WASHINGTON STEVEDORING COMPANIES ET AL.
No. 76-1706.
Supreme Court of United States.
Argued January 16-17, 1978.
Decided April 26, 1978.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.
*736 Slade Gorton, Attorney General of Washington, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs were Richard H. Holmquist, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Matthew J. Coyle, Assistant Attorney General.
John T. Piper argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief was D. Michael Young.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the Court.
For the second time in this century, the State of Washington would apply its business and occupation tax to stevedoring. The State's first application of the tax to stevedoring was unsuccessful, for it was held to be unconstitutional as violative of the Commerce Clause[1] of the United States Constitution. Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, <targetCase>302 U.S. 90 </targetCase>(1937). The Court now faces the question whether Washington's second attempt violates either the Commerce Clause or the Import-Export Clause.[2]


*737 I
Stevedoring is the business of loading and unloading cargo from ships.[3] Private stevedoring companies constitute respondent Association of Washington Stevedoring Companies; respondent Washington Public Ports Association is a non-profit corporation consisting of port authorities that engage in stevedoring activities. App. 3. In 1974 petitioner Department of Revenue of the State of Washington adopted Revised Rule 193. pt. D. Wash. Admin. Code 458-20-193-D, to implement the State's 1% business and occupation tax on *738 services, set forth in Wash. Rev. Code §§ 82.04.220 and 82.04.290 (1976).[4] The Rule applies the tax to stevedoring and reads in pertinent part as set forth in the margin.[5]
Revised Rule 193D restores the original scope of the Washington business and occupation tax. After initial imposition *739 of the tax in 1935,[6]
Passage 2:
because it did not discriminate against importing or exporting, did not impair transportation, did not impose multiple burdens, and did not *743 regulate commerce. 88 Wash. 2d, at 320-322, 559 P.2d, at 999-1000.
Because of the possible impact on the issues made by our intervening decision in Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, 430 U.S. 274 (1977), filed after the Washington Supreme Court's ruling, we granted certiorari. 434 U.S. 815 (1977).

II

The Commerce Clause

A
In Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, the Court invalidated the Washington business and occupation tax on stevedoring only because it applied directly to interstate commerce. Stevedoring was interstate commerce, according to the Court, because:
"Transportation of a cargo by water is impossible or futile unless the thing to be transported is put aboard the ship and taken off at destination. A stevedore who in person or by servants does work so indispensable is as much an agency of commerce as shipowner or <targetCase>master." 302 U.S., at 92</targetCase>.
Without further analysis, the Court concluded:
"The business of loading and unloading being interstate or foreign commerce, the State of Washington is not at liberty to tax the privilege of doing it by exacting in return therefor a percentage of the gross receipts. Decisions to that effect are many and controlling." Id., at 94.
The petitioners (officers of New York City) in Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Co., urged the Court to overrule Puget Sound. They argued that intervening cases[14] had permitted *744 local taxation of gross proceeds derived from interstate commerce. They concluded, therefore, that the Commerce Clause did not preclude the application to stevedoring of the New York City business tax on the gross receipts of a stevedoring corporation. The Court disagreed on the theory that the intervening cases permitted taxation only of local activity separate and distinct from interstate commerce. 330 U.S., at 430-433. This separation theory was necessary, said the Court,
Passage 3:
itute respondent Association of Washington Stevedoring Companies "are engaged in the same stevedoring activities that were held not taxable in Puget Sound Stevedoring Co." This Court explained the activities of the appellant stevedoring company in Puget Sound as follows:

"What was done by this appellant in the business of loading and unloading was not prolonged beyond the stage of transportation and its reasonable incidents. . . . True, the service did not begin or end at the ship's side, where the cargo is placed upon a sling attached to the ship's tackle. It took in the work of carriage to and from the `first place of rest,' which means that it covered the space between the hold of the vessel and a convenient point of discharge upon the dock. . . . The fact is stipulated, however, that no matter by whom the work is done or paid for, `stevedoring services are essential to waterborne commerce and always commence in the hold of the vessel and end at the "first place of rest," and vice <targetCase>versa.'" 302 U.S., at 93</targetCase>.
[4]  Section 82.04.220 reads:

"There is levied and shall be collected from every person a tax for the act or privilege of engaging in business activities. Such tax shall be measured by the application of rates against value of products, gross proceeds of sales, or gross income of the business, as the case may be."
Section 82.04.290 reads in pertinent part:
"Upon every person engaging within this state in any business activity other than or in addition to those enumerated in . . . ; as to such persons the amount of tax on account of such activities shall be equal to the gross income of the business multiplied by the rate of one percent. This section includes, among others, and without limiting the scope hereof . . . , persons engaged in the business of rendering any type of service which does not constitute a `sale at retail' or a `sale at wholesale.'"
We note, also, that § 82.04.460 reads in part:
"Any person rendering services taxable under RCW 82.04.290 and maintaining places of b