Passage 1:
Court of Appeals did not disagree, but instead argued that Miller had been prejudiced in his right to be free from a trial for any offense other than that alleged in the grand jury's indictment. 728 F.2d, at 1270. It reasoned that a grand jury's willingness to indict an individual for participation in a broad criminal plan does not establish that the same grand jury would have indicted the individual for participating in a substantially narrower, even if wholly included, criminal plan. 715 F.2d, at 1362-1363. Relying on the Fifth Amendment's grand jury guarantee, the Court of Appeals concluded that a conviction could not stand where the trial proof corresponded to a fraudulent scheme much narrower than, though included within, the scheme that the grand jury had alleged. The Court of Appeals cited two prior decisions of this Court that emphasized the right of an accused to be tried only on charges that had in fact been passed on by a grand jury. Ibid. (citing Stirone v. United States, <targetCase>361 U.S. 212 </targetCase>(1960), and Ex parte Bain, 121 U.S. 1 (1887)). Cf. United States v. Mastelotto, 717 F.2d 1238, 1248-1250 (CA9 1983) (similarly relying on Stirone and Bain).

II
The Government correctly argues that the Court of Appeals' result conflicts with a number of this Court's prior *136 decisions interpreting the Fifth Amendment's Grand Jury Clause. The Court has long recognized that an indictment may charge numerous offenses or the commission of any one offense in several ways. As long as the crime and the elements of the offense that sustain the conviction are fully and clearly set out in the indictment, the right to a grand jury is not normally violated by the fact that the indictment alleges more crimes or other means of committing the same crime. See, e. g., Ford v. United States, 273 U.S. 593 (1927); Salinger v. United States, 272 U.S. 542 (1926). See also Berger v. United States, supra; Hall v. United States, 168 U.S. 632, 638-640 (1898). Indeed, a number of longstanding doctrines of crim
Passage 2:
nt on the ground that the offense proved was fully contained within the indictment. Nothing had been added to the indictment which, in the Court's view, "remained just as it was returned by the grand jury." Ibid. "[T]he trial was on the charge preferred in it and not on a modified charge," ibid., and there *138 was thus "not even remotely an infraction of the constitutional provision that `no person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury.' " Id., at 549. See also Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78 (1935); Goto v. Lane, 265 U.S. 393 (1924); Hall v. United States, supra, at 638-640.[5]
The result reached by the Court of Appeals thus conflicts with the results reached by this Court in such cases as Salinger and Ford. See also Hall v. United States, supra, at 638-640; Crain v. United States, supra, at 634-636.

III
The Court of Appeals principally relied on this Court's decision in Stirone v. United States, <targetCase>361 U.S. 212 </targetCase>(1960), to support its conclusion that the Fifth Amendment's grand jury right is violated by a conviction for a criminal plan narrower than, but fully included within, the plan set forth in the indictment. Stirone, however, stands for a very different proposition. In Stirone the offense proved at trial was not fully contained in the indictment, for trial evidence had "amended" the indictment by broadening the possible bases for conviction from that which appeared in the indictment. Stirone was thus wholly unlike the cases discussed in Part II, supra, and unlike respondent's case, all of which involve trial evidence that narrowed the indictment's charges without adding any new offenses. As the Stirone Court said, the issue was "whether [Stirone] was convicted of an offense not *139 charged in the indictment.<targetCase>" 361 U.S., at 213 </targetCase>(emphasis added).
Stirone, a union official, was indicted for and convicted of unlawfully interfering with interstate commerce in violation of the Hobbs Act. 18 U.S. C. ยง 1951. More specifically, the indictment charged that he had engaged in extortion that obstructed shipments of sand from outside Pennsylvania into that State, where it was to be used in the construction of a steel mill. At trial, however, the prosecution's proof of the required interference with interstate commerce went beyond the allegation of obstructed sand shipments. The prosecutor also attempted to prove that Stirone had obstructed the steel mill's eventual export of steel to surrounding States. Because the conviction might have been based on the evidence of obstructed steel exports, an element of an offense not alleged in the indictment, a unanimous Court held that the indictment had been unconstitutionally "broadened."
"The right to have the grand jury make the charge on its own judgment is a substantial right which cannot be taken away with or without court amendment. Here,. . . we cannot know whether the grand jury would have included in its indictment a charge that commerce in steel from a nonexistent steel mill had been interfered with. Yet because of the court's admission of evidence and under its charge this might have been the basis upon which the trial jury convicted petitioner. If so, he was convicted on a charge the grand jury never made against him. This was fatal <targetCase>error." 361 U.S., at 218-219</targetCase>.
The Court contrasted Stirone's case with cases like Ford v. United States. <targetCase>See 361 U.S., at 217</targetCase>. As we discussed in Part II, supra, in Ford the Court had refused to invalidate a conviction because of variances between the indictment and the narrower trial proof. The Stirone Court declared that, unlike that sort of variance, "the addition charging interference with steel exports [in Stirone was] neither trivial, *140 useless, nor innocuous. While there was a variance in the sense of a variation between pleading and proof, that variation [had in Stirone] destroyed the defendant's substantial right to be tried only on charges presented in an indictment returned by a grand jury. Deprivation of such a basic right is far too serious to be treated as nothing more than a variance and then dismissed as harmless <targetCase>error." 361 U.S., at 217 </targetCase>(citations omitted). Accord, Russell v. United States, 369 U. S., at 770-771 (following Stirone).
Miller has shown no deprivation of his "substantial right to be tried only on charges presented in an indictment returned by a grand <targetCase>jury." 361 U.S., at 217</targetCase>. In contrast to Stirone, Miller was tried on an indictment that clearly set out the offense for which he was ultimately convicted. His complaint is not that the indictment failed to charge the offense for which he was convicted, but that the indictment charged more than was necessary.

IV
The one decision of this Court that does offer some support to the Court of Appeals' result is Ex parte Bain, 121 U.S. 1 (1887), for there the Court treated as an unconstitutional "amendment" the deletion from an indictment of allegations that would not have been necessary to prove the offense. This deletion, in the Court's view, did constitute a compromise of the defendant's right to be tried only on a grand jury's indictment.
Bain was a bank cashier who had been indicted for including false statements in a report required to be made to the Comptroller of the Currency. The indictment charged that when Bain filed these required reports, he "did then and there well know and believe the said report and
Passage 3:
its own notions of what it ought to have been, or what the grand jury would probably have made it if their attention had been called to suggested changes, the great importance which *143 the common law attaches to an indictment by a grand jury, as a prerequisite to a prisoner's trial for a crime, and without which the Constitution says `no person shall be held to answer,' may be frittered away until its value is almost destroyed." Id., at 10.
This aspect of Bain has been reaffirmed in a number of subsequent cases. See, e. g., United States v. Norris, 281 U.S. 619, 622 (1930) (citing Bain for the rule that "nothing can be added to an indictment without the concurrence of the grand jury by which the bill was found"). The most important reaffirmation, of course, was Stirone. See Part III, supra. In Stirone, the Court's unanimous opinion extensively relied on Bain for the proposition that "a court cannot permit a defendant to be tried on charges that are not made in the indictment against <targetCase>him," 361 U.S., at 217</targetCase>, and therefore that "after an indictment has been returned its charges may not be broadened through amendment except by the grand jury itself." Id., at 215-216. See also Russell v. United States, 369 U. S., at 770 (citing Bain for the "settled rule in the federal courts that an indictment may not be amended except by resubmission to the grand jury, unless the change is merely a matter of form").[7]
*144 But this aspect of Bain gives no support to Miller in this case, see Part III, supra, for the offense that formed the basis of Miller's conviction was clearly and fully set out in the indictment. Miller must instead rest on the second, and more specific, proposition found in Bain, that a narrowing of the indictment constitutes an amendment that renders the indictment void.
As is clear from the discussion of cases in Part II, supra, this second proposition did not long survive Bain. Indeed, when defendants have sought to rely on Bain for this point, this Court has limited or distinguish