Passage 1:
ed in New York. The Governors Island commander convened a general court-martial to try petitioner for crimes alleged to have occurred in Alaska and New York.
There is no "base" or "post" where Coast Guard personnel live and work in Juneau. Consequently, nearly all Coast Guard military personnel reside in the civilian community. Petitioner's Alaska offenses were committed in his privately owned home, and the fathers of the 10- to 12-year-old victims in Alaska were active duty members of the Coast Guard assigned to the same command as petitioner. Petitioner's New York offenses also involved daughters of fellow coast-guardsmen, but were committed in Government quarters on the Governors Island base.
After the general court-martial was convened in New York, petitioner moved to dismiss the charges for crimes committed in Alaska on the ground that the court lacked jurisdiction under this Court's decisions in O'Callahan v. Parker, supra, and Relford v. Commandant, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, <targetCase>401 U. S. 355</targetCase> (1971).[1] Ruling that the Alaska offenses were not sufficiently "service connected" to be tried in the military criminal justice system, the court-martial judge granted the motion to dismiss. The Government appealed the dismissal of the charges to the United *438 States Coast Guard Court of Military Review, which reversed the trial judge's order and reinstated the charges. 21 M. J. 512 (1985).
The United States Court of Military Appeals affirmed the Court of Military Review, concluding that the Alaska offenses were service connected within the meaning of O'Callahan and Relford. 21 M. J. 251 (1986). Stating that "not every off-base offense against a servicemember's dependent is service-connected," the court reasoned that "sex offenses against young children . . . have a continuing effect on the victims and their families and ultimately on the morale of any military unit or organization to which the family member is assigned." Id., at 256. In reaching its holding, the court also weighe
Passage 2:
76) (right to counsel in summary court-martial proceedings); Schlesinger v. Councilman, 420 U. S. 738, 753 (1975) (availability of injunctive relief from an impending court-martial); Parker v. Levy, 417 U. S. 733, 756 (1974) (due process rights and freedom of expression).
The notion that civil courts are "ill equipped" to establish policies regarding matters of military concern is substantiated by experience under the service connection approach. Chappell v. Wallace, supra, at 305. In his O'Callahan dissent, Justice Harlan forecasted that "the infinite permutations of possibly relevant factors are bound to create confusion and proliferate litigation over the [court-martial] jurisdiction issue." 395 U. S., at 284. In fact, within two years after O'Callahan, this Court found it necessary to expound on the meaning of the decision, enumerating a myriad of factors for courts to weigh in determining whether an offense is service connected. Relford v. Commandant, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, <targetCase>401 U. S. 355</targetCase> (1971). Yet the service connection approach, even as elucidated in Relford, has proved confusing and difficult for military courts to apply.[13]
*449 Since O'Callahan and Relford, military courts have identified numerous categories of offenses requiring specialized analysis of the service connection requirement. For example, the courts have highlighted subtle distinctions among offenses committed on a military base, offenses committed off-base, offenses arising from events occurring both on and off a base, and offenses committed on or near the boundaries of a base.[14] Much time and energy has also been expended in litigation over other jurisdictional factors, such as the status of the victim of the crime, and the results are difficult to reconcile.[15] The confusion created by the complexity of the service connection requirement, however, is perhaps best illustrated in the area of off-base drug offenses.[16] Soon after O'Callahan, the Court of Military Appeals held that drug offenses
Passage 3:
he lessons of experience and the force of better reasoning." Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406-408 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting). We therefore hold that the requirements of the Constitution are not violated where, as here, a court-martial *451 is convened to try a serviceman who was a member of the Armed Services at the time of the offense charged.[18] The judgment of the Court of Military Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring in the judgment.
Today's unnecessary overruling of precedent is most unwise. The opinion of the United States Court of Military Appeals demonstrates that petitioner's offenses were sufficiently "service connected" to confer jurisdiction on the military tribunal. Unless this Court disagrees with that determination — and I would be most surprised to be told that it does — it has no business reaching out to reexamine the decisions in O'Callahan v. Parker, 395 U. S. 258 (1969), and Relford v. Commandant, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, <targetCase>401 U. S. 355</targetCase> (1971). While there might be some dispute about the exact standard to be applied in deciding whether to overrule prior decisions, I had thought that we all could agree that such drastic action is only appropriate when essential to *452 the disposition of a case or controversy before the Court.[*] The fact that any five Members of the Court have the power to reconsider settled precedents at random, does not make that practice legitimate.
For the reasons stated by the Court of Military Appeals, I agree that its judgment should be affirmed.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, and with whom JUSTICE BLACKMUN joins in all but the last paragraph, dissenting.
Less than 20 years ago, this Court held in O'Callahan v. Parker, 395 U. S. 258 (1969), that, to be subject to trial by court-martial, a criminal offense charged against a member of the Armed Forces had to be "service connected," lest the phrase "cases arising in the land or naval forces" in the Fifth Amendment "be expanded
Passage 4:
e Framers' understanding.
Instead of acknowledging the Fifth Amendment limits on the crimes triable in a court-martial, the Court simply ignores them. But "[t]he concept that the Bill of Rights and other constitutional protections against arbitrary government are inoperative when they become inconvenient or when expediency dictates otherwise is a very dangerous doctrine and if allowed to flourish would destroy the benefit of a written Constitution and undermine the basis of our Government." Reid v. Covert, 354 U. S. 1, 14 (1957) (plurality opinion). *462 The limitations may not, in the view of the majority, be desirable, but that does not mean they do not exist.
The requirement of service connection recognized in O'Callahan has a legitimate basis in constitutional language and a solid historical foundation. It should be applied in this case.

II
Application of the service connection requirement of O'Callahan, as further elaborated in Relford v. Commandant, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, <targetCase>401 U. S. 355</targetCase> (1971), demonstrates that petitioner's Alaska crimes do not have an adequate service connection to support the exercise of court-martial jurisdiction. Petitioner's offenses did not detract from the performance of his military duties. He committed these crimes while properly absent from his unit, and there was no connection between his assigned duties and his crimes. Nor did petitioner's crimes threaten people or areas under military control. The crimes were committed in petitioner's private home in the civilian community in Juneau, where there is not even a base for Coast Guard personnel. Petitioner's acts were not likely to go unpunished; the court-martial judge determined that the offenses were of a type traditionally prosecuted by civilian courts, that such courts were available, and that, while the Alaska courts had deferred prosecution in light of the court-martial proceeding, the State had not declined to prosecute the offenses. Nor did the crimes implicate any authority stemmin
Passage 5:
oyment and neighborly relationships," App. to Pet. for Cert. 58a, rather than the connection of petitioner and the families through the Coast Guard.[8] Because the crimes did not take place in an area within military control or have any effect on petitioner's military duties, their commission posed no challenge to the maintenance of order in the local command. The military judge found that the Government had not demonstrated any impact of the offenses on "morale, discipline, [or] the reputation or the integrity of the Coast Guard in Juneau." The only connection between the military and the offenses at issue was the fact that the victims were military dependents. But the military judge found explicitly that the military association of petitioner and the victims' fathers did not facilitate petitioner's crimes,[9] and that "[t]he impact apparent in this case, that is, on the parents and the victims themselves is no different than that which would be produced by [a] civilian perpetrator." <targetCase>Id.,</targetCase> at 57a.
The military judge, after properly reviewing the Relford factors, concluded correctly that they did not render petitioner's *464 offenses service connected and dismissed the charges. Engaging in what can only be described as impermissible appellate factfinding,[10] the Coast Guard Court of Military *465 Review reversed the dismissal. 21 M. J. 512 (1985). It concluded that the military judge's finding that the offenses had had no impact on morale or discipline was erroneous because the judge should have considered the effect the offenses would have had on the community in Juneau had they come to light while the victims and their families were still in Alaska, and the impact of the offenses on morale and discipline at Governors Island. Without remanding for further factfinding, the court held that the Alaska offenses had a direct impact upon the good order, discipline, morale, and welfare of Coast Guard personnel at Governors Island. Id., at 519. It further asserted, again witho
Passage 6:
provide those safeguards guaranteed by the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. See Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 333, 352-354 (1907).
[2]  The language of this exception could be understood to mean that "cases arising in the land or naval forces," as well as in the militia, are only excepted from the requirement of grand jury indictment or presentment "in actual service in time of War or public danger." This Court, however, has interpreted the "time of war" provision as referring only to cases arising in the militia, not the land or naval forces. Johnson v. Sayre, 158 U. S. 109, 114 (1895). I am not convinced this reading of the Fifth Amendment is correct, but need not rely on a different interpretation here.
[3]  "This Court has constantly reiterated that the language of the Constitution where clear and unambiguous must be given its plain evident meaning." Reid v. Covert, 354 U. S. 1, 8, n. 7 (1957) (plurality opinion).
[4]  See also Relford v. Commandant, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, <targetCase>401 U. S. 355</targetCase>, 362-363 (1971); Gosa v. Mayden, 413 U. S. 665, 672-673 (1973).

The majority contends that, before O'Callahan, this Court had held consistently that status as a member of the Armed Forces was an adequate basis for the assertion of court-martial jurisdiction. Ante, at 439. But a number of the precedents cited dealt with the assertion of court-martial jurisdiction over individuals who were not members of the Armed Forces and therefore, this Court ruled, did not come within the reach of Art. I, § 8, cl. 14. See Kinsella v. United States ex rel. Singleton, 361 U. S. 234, 246-248 (1960) (military dependent in noncapital case); Reid v. Covert, supra, at 19-23 (plurality opinion) (military dependent in capital case); United States ex rel. Toth v. Quarles, 350 U. S. 11, 14-15 (1955) (discharged veteran); see also Grisham v. Hagan, 361 U. S. 278 (1960) (civilian military employee in capital case); McElroy v. United States ex rel. Guagliardo, 361 U. S. 281, 286 (1960) (civilian military employ