Passage 1:
fs were Don Siegelman, Attorney General, and Rosa Hamlett Davis and J. Randall McNeill, Assistant Attorneys General.
Paul J. Larkin, Jr., argued the cause for the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. On the brief were Acting Solicitor General Bryson, Assistant Attorney General Dennis, and Lawrence S. Robbins.
Delores R. Boyd, by appointment of the Court, 489 U.S. 1063, argued the cause and filed a brief for respondent.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
James Lewis Smith pleaded guilty to charges of burglary and rape. In exchange for the plea, a sodomy charge was dropped. Later, Smith succeeded in having his guilty plea vacated. He went to trial on the three original charges, was convicted on each, and received a longer sentence on the burglary conviction than had been given after his guilty plea. The Alabama Supreme Court held that this increased sentence created a presumption of vindictiveness similar to that set forth in North Carolina v. Pearce, <targetCase>395 U.S. 711 </targetCase>(1969). We hold that no presumption of vindictiveness arises when the first sentence was based upon a guilty plea, and the second sentence follows a trial.
In 1985, an Alabama grand jury indicted Smith for burglary, rape, and sodomy. All the charges related to a single *796 assault. Smith agreed to plead guilty to the burglary and rape charges in exchange for the State's agreement to dismiss the sodomy charge. The trial court granted the State's motion to dismiss the sodomy charge, accepted respondent's guilty plea, and sentenced him to concurrent terms of 30-years' imprisonment on each conviction. Later, respondent moved to withdraw his guilty plea, claiming that he had not entered it knowingly and voluntarily. The trial court denied this motion, but the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals reversed, finding that respondent had not been properly informed of the penalties associated with the crimes to which he had pleaded guilty. 494 So. 2d 182 (1986).
The case was reassigned to the same
Passage 2:
has had a trial and heard all of the evidence," including testimony that respondent had raped the victim at least five times, forced her to engage in oral sex with him, and threatened her life with a knife. Ibid. The court stated that this new information about the nature of respondent's crimes and their impact on the victim, together with its observations of his "mental outlook on [the offenses] and [his] position during the trial," convinced it that it was "proper to increase the sentence beyond that which was given to [him] on the plea bargain." Id., at 30.
The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed respondent's convictions, as well as the life sentences imposed for burglary and sodomy, but remanded the rape conviction for resentencing. The Supreme Court of Alabama then granted respondent's request for review of the burglary sentence, and reversed and remanded by a divided vote. Ex parte Smith, 557 So. 2d 13 (1988). The majority held that under our decision in North Carolina v. <targetCase>Pearce, supra</targetCase>, there can be no increase in sentence "upon reconviction at [a] second trial after the first conviction has been overturned on appeal and remanded for a new trial," unless the increase is justified by " `events subsequent to the first trial.' " 557 So. 2d, at 15. Because the majority thought the trial court had increased respondent's sentence for the burglary conviction based on new information about events occurring prior to the imposition of the original sentence — e. g., new information about the nature of the crime and its effect on the victim — the majority held that Pearce required it to set aside that sentence.
*798 The three dissenting justices argued that the Pearce presumption of vindictiveness did not apply where the original sentence is entered after a guilty plea. Id., at 16. In their view, a defendant "should not be allowed to receive sentence concessions in return for a guilty plea and then, after a successful attack on that plea, bind the State to its original sentenci
Passage 3:
uestion upon which we granted certiorari, and we decline to reach it here although it may be open to respondent on our remand to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, dissenting.
After successfully challenging the validity of his plea bargain on the ground that the trial judge had misinformed him about the penalties he could face, respondent Smith went to trial. He was convicted and resentenced to a drastically longer sentence than the one he had initially received as a result of his plea bargain. The majority today finds no infirmity in this result. I, however, continue to believe that, "if for any reason a new trial is granted and there is a conviction a second time, the second penalty imposed cannot exceed the first penalty, if respect is had for the guarantee against *804 double jeopardy." North Carolina v. Pearce, <targetCase>395 U.S. 711</targetCase>, 726-727 (1969) (Douglas, J., concurring, joined by MARSHALL, J.) (emphasis added). I therefore dissent.
NOTES
[1]  The State filed an application for rehearing, which the Supreme Court of Alabama denied. App. to Pet. for Cert. 15. This time four justices dissented.
[2]  Compare, for example, the Alabama Supreme Court's decision in the instant case, Ex parte Smith, 557 So. 2d 13 (1988), State v. Sutton, 197 Conn. 485, 498 A.2d 65 (1985), and United States v. Gilliss, 645 F.2d 1269 (CA8 1981), with State v. Bawdon, 386 N.W.2d 484 (S. D. 1986), and McKenzie v. Risley, 842 F.2d 1525, 1536-1537 (CA9 1988) (en banc).
[3]  We adopted a similar prophylactic rule to guard against vindictiveness by the prosecutor at the postconviction stage in Blackledge v. Perry, 417 U.S. 21 (1974). There the prosecutor charged the defendant with a felony when the latter availed himself of de novo review of his initial conviction of a misdemeanor for the same conduct. He received a sentence of five to seven y