Passage 1:
esented four federal constitutional claims he had raised on direct appeal in the Virginia Supreme Court and seven claims he had raised for the first time in state habeas. The District Court concluded that, by virtue of the dismissal of his appeal by the Virginia Supreme Court in state habeas, Coleman had procedurally defaulted the seven claims. App. 38-39. The District Court nonetheless went on to address the merits of all 11 of Coleman's claims. The court ruled against Coleman on all of the claims and denied the petition. Id., at 40-52.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed. 895 F.2d 139 (1990). The court held that Coleman had defaulted all of the claims that he had presented for the first time in state habeas. Coleman argued that the Virginia Supreme Court had not "clearly and expressly" stated that its decision in state habeas was based on a procedural default, and therefore the federal courts could not treat it as such under the rule of Harris v. Reed, <targetCase>489 U.S. 255 </targetCase>(1989). The Fourth Circuit disagreed. It concluded that the Virginia Supreme Court had met the "plain statement" requirement of Harris by granting a motion to dismiss that was based solely on procedural grounds. 895 F.2d, at 143. The Fourth Circuit held that the Virginia Supreme Court's decision *729 rested on independent and adequate state grounds and that Coleman had not shown cause to excuse the default. Id., at 143-144. As a consequence, federal review of the claims Coleman presented only in the state habeas proceeding was barred. Id., at 144. We granted certiorari, 498 U.S. 937 (1990), to resolve several issues concerning the relationship between state procedural defaults and federal habeas review, and now affirm.

II

A
This Court will not review a question of federal law decided by a state court if the decision of that court rests on a state law ground that is independent of the federal question and adequate to support the judgment. See, e. g., Fox Film Corp. v. Muller, 296 U.S.
Passage 2:
to the jury, but he did not raise the issue on appeal to the Mississippi Supreme Court. That court raised the issue sua sponte, discussing this federal question at length in its opinion and deciding it against Caldwell. The court also made reference to its general rule that issues not raised on appeal are deemed waived. The State argued to this Court that the procedural default constituted an independent and adequate state ground for the Mississippi *734 court's decision. We rejected this argument, noting that the state decision "`fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law,'" and there was no clear and express statement that the Mississippi Supreme Court was relying on procedural default as an independent ground. Id., at 327, quoting Long, supra, at 1040.
Long and Caldwell were direct review cases. We first considered the problem of ambiguous state court decisions in the application of the independent and adequate state ground doctrine in a federal habeas case in Harris v. Reed, <targetCase>489 U.S. 255 </targetCase>(1989). Harris, a state prisoner, filed a petition for state postconviction relief, alleging that his trial counsel had rendered ineffective assistance. The state trial court dismissed the petition, and the Appellate Court of Illinois affirmed. In its order, the Appellate Court referred to the Illinois rule that "`those [issues] which could have been presented [on direct appeal], but were not, are considered waived.'" Id., at 258. The court concluded that Harris could have raised his ineffective assistance claims on direct review. Nonetheless, the court considered and rejected Harris' claims on the merits. Harris then petitioned for federal habeas.
The situation presented to this Court was nearly identical to that in Long and Caldwell: a state court decision that fairly appeared to rest primarily on federal law in a context in which a federal court has an obligation to determine if the state court decision rested on an independent and adequate state ground. "Faced with a common problem
Passage 3:
. 481 U.S., at 556 (citing Ross, supra).
These cases dictate the answer here. Given that a criminal defendant has no right to counsel beyond his first appeal in pursuing state discretionary or collateral review, it would defy logic for us to hold that Coleman had a right to counsel *757 to appeal a state collateral determination of his claims of trial error.
Because Coleman had no right to counsel to pursue his appeal in state habeas, any attorney error that led to the default of Coleman's claims in state court cannot constitute cause to excuse the default in federal habeas. As Coleman does not argue in this Court that federal review of his claims is necessary to prevent a fundamental miscarriage of justice, he is barred from bringing these claims in federal habeas. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.
I concur in the judgment of the Court and I join in its opinion, but add a few words concerning what occurred below. Harris v. Reed, <targetCase>489 U.S. 255 </targetCase>(1989), stated that "a procedural default does not bar consideration of a federal claim on either direct or habeas review unless the last state court rendering a judgment in the case `"clearly and expressly"' states that its judgment rests on a state procedural bar." Id., at 263, quoting Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U.S. 320, 327 (1985), in turn quoting Michigan v. Long, 463 U.S. 1032, 1041 (1983). If there were nothing before us but the order granting the State's motion to dismiss for untimeliness, it would be clear enough that the dismissal was based on a procedural default.
But the state court did not grant the State's explicit request for an early ruling on the motion. Instead, the court delayed ruling on the motion to dismiss, and hence briefs on both the motion and the merits were filed. Six months later, the court "upon consideration whereof" granted the State's motion to dismiss the appeal. Hence petitioner's argument that the court studied the merits of the federal claims to d
Passage 4:
the decision of the state court rests upon a fair and substantial basis. If unsubstantial, constitutional obligations may not thus be evaded").
From these noble beginnings, the Court has managed to transform the duty to protect federal rights into a self-fashioned abdication. Defying the constitutional allocation *762 of sovereign authority, the Court now requires a federal court to scrutinize the state-court judgment with an eye to denying a litigant review of his federal claims rather than enforcing those provisions of the Federal Bill of Rights that secure individual autonomy.

II
Even if one acquiesced in the majority's unjustifiable elevation of abstract federalism over fundamental precepts of liberty and fairness, the Court's conclusion that the plain-statement rule of Michigan v. Long does not apply to a summary order defies both settled understandings and compassionate reason.

A
As an initial matter, it cannot seriously be disputed that the Court's opinion in Harris v. Reed, <targetCase>489 U.S. 255 </targetCase>(1989), expressly considered this issue and resolved the question quite contrary to the Court's holding today. Both Long and Harris involved a federal review of a state-court opinion that, on its face, addressed the merits of the underlying claims and resolved those claims with express reference to both state and federal law. See Long, 463 U. S., at 1037, and n. 3; Harris, 489 U. S., at 257-258. In each case, it was not disputed that the alleged state ground had been invoked: The Court was faced with the question whether that state ground was adequate to support the judgment and independent of federal law. Accordingly, the Long and Harris Courts spoke of state-court judgments that "fairly appea[r] to rest primarily on federal law, or to be interwoven with federal law," Long, 463 U. S., at 1040, or that contained "ambiguous... references to state law." Harris, 489 U. S., at 263.
The majority asserts that these statements establish a factual predicate for the application of the plain-sta
Passage 5:
l of Texas, Will Pryor, First Assistant Attorney General, Mary F. Keller, Executive Assistant Attorney General, and Michael P. Hodge, Robert S. Walt, Dana E. Parker, and Margaret Portman Griffey, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Charles E. Cole of Alaska, Daniel E. Lungren of California, Michael C. Moore of Mississippi, Robert H. Henry of Oklahoma, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, and Joseph B. Meyer of Wyoming; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.
[*]  This rule does not apply if the petitioner failed to exhaust state remedies and the court to which the petitioner would be required to present his claims in order to meet the exhaustion requirement would now find the claims procedurally barred. In such a case there is a procedural default for purposes of federal habeas regardless of the decision of the last state court to which the petitioner actually presented his claims. See Harris v. Reed, <targetCase>489 U.S. 255</targetCase>, 269-270 (1989) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring); Teague v. Lane, 489 U.S. 288, 297-298 (1989).