Passage 1:
he prisoner can be restored to a useful place in the community.' Sanders v. United States, 373 U.S. 1, 24-25 (1963) (dissenting opinion)." Id., at 127.
Moreover, "[f]ederal intrusions into state criminal trials frustrate both the States' sovereign power to punish offenders and their good-faith attempts to honor constitutional rights." Id., at 128. These costs are particularly high, we explained, when a state prisoner, through a procedural default, prevents adjudication of his constitutional claims in state court. Because these costs do not depend on the type of claim the prisoner raised, we reaffirmed that a state procedural default of any federal claim will bar federal habeas unless the petitioner demonstrates cause and actual prejudice. Id., at 129. We also explained in Engle that the cause and prejudice standard will be met in those cases where review of a state prisoner's claim is necessary to correct "a fundamental miscarriage of justice." Id., at 135. See also Murray v. Carrier, <targetCase>477 U.S. 478</targetCase>, 496 (1986) ("[W]here a constitutional violation has probably resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent, a federal habeas court may grant the writ even in the absence of a showing of cause for the procedural default").
In Carrier, we applied the cause and prejudice standard to a petitioner's failure to raise a particular claim in his state *749 court appeal. Again, we emphasized the important interests served by state procedural rules at every stage of the judicial process and the harm to the States that results when federal courts ignore these rules:
"A State's procedural rules serve vital purposes at trial, on appeal, and on state collateral attack. . . .
". . . `Each State's complement of procedural rules. . . channel[s], to the extent possible, the resolution of various types of questions to the stage of the judicial process at which they can be resolved most fairly and efficiently.' [Reed v. Ross, 468 U.S. 1, 10 (1984).] . . . Failure to raise a claim on appeal r
Passage 2:
ontinued to apply under the facts of that case, where a state prisoner has defaulted his entire appeal. See Carrier, supra, at 492; Sykes, supra, at 88, n. 12. We are now required to answer this question. By filing late, Coleman defaulted his entire state collateral appeal. This was no doubt an inadvertent error, and respondent concedes that Coleman did not "understandingly and knowingly" forgo the privilege of state collateral appeal. See Fay, 372 U. S., at 439. Therefore, if the Fay deliberate bypass standard still applies, Coleman's state procedural default will not bar federal habeas.
In Harris, we described in broad terms the application of the cause and prejudice standard, hinting strongly that Fay had been superseded:
"Under Sykes and its progeny, an adequate and independent finding of procedural default will bar federal habeas review of the federal claim, unless the habeas petitioner can show `cause' for the default and `prejudice *750 attributable thereto,' Murray v. Carrier, <targetCase>477 U.S. 478</targetCase>, 485 (1986), or demonstrate that failure to consider the federal claim will result in a `"`fundamental miscarriage of justice.'"' Id., at 495, quoting Engle v. Isaac, 456 U.S. 107, 135 (1982). See also Smith v. Murray, 477 U.S. 527, 537 (1986)." Harris, 489 U. S., at 262.
We now make it explicit: In all cases in which a state prisoner has defaulted his federal claims in state court pursuant to an independent and adequate state procedural rule, federal habeas review of the claims is barred unless the prisoner can demonstrate cause for the default and actual prejudice as a result of the alleged violation of federal law, or demonstrate that failure to consider the claims will result in a fundamental miscarriage of justice. Fay was based on a conception of federal/state relations that undervalued the importance of state procedural rules. The several cases after Fay that applied the cause and prejudice standard to a variety of state procedural defaults represent a different view. We now re
Passage 3:
ave errors—even if the result of those errors is that the prisoner will be executed without having presented his federal claims to a federal court — because this attribution of risk represents the appropriate "allocation of costs." Ante, at 754. Whether unprofessional attorney conduct in a state postconviction proceeding should bar federal habeas review of a state prisoner's *772 conviction and sentence of death is not a question of costs to be allocated most efficiently. It is, rather, another circumstance where this Court must determine whether federal rights should yield to state interests. In my view, the obligation of a federal habeas court to correct fundamental constitutional violations, particularly in capital cases, should not accede to the State's "discretion to develop and implement programs to aid prisoners seeking to secure postconviction review." Pennsylvania v. Finley, 481 U.S. 551, 559 (1987).
The majority first contends that this Court's decision in Murray v. Carrier, <targetCase>477 U.S. 478 </targetCase>(1986), expressly resolves this issue. Of course, that cannot be so, as the procedural default at issue in Murray occurred on direct review, not collateral attack, and this Court has no authority to resolve issues not before it. Moreover, notwithstanding the majority's protestations to the contrary, the language of Murray strongly suggests that the Court's resolution of the issue would have been the same regardless of when the procedural default occurred. The Court in Murray explained: "A State's procedural rules serve vital purposes at trial, on appeal, and on state collateral attack." 477 U.S., at 490 (emphasis added). Rejecting Carrier's argument that, with respect to the standard for cause, procedural defaults on appeal should be treated differently from those that occur during the trial, the Court stated that "the standard for cause should not vary depending on the timing of a procedural default or on the strength of an uncertain and difficult assessment of the relative magnitude