Passage 1:
y also permits it. See Grady, supra, at 516.
We begin with Dixon. The statute applicable in Dixon's contempt prosecution provides that "[a] person who has been conditionally released . . . and who has violated a condition of release shall be subject to . . . prosecution for contempt of court." § 23-1329(a). Obviously, Dixon could not commit an "offence" under this provision until an order setting out conditions was issued. The statute by itself imposes no legal obligation on anyone. Dixon's cocaine possession, although an offense under D. C. Code Ann. § 33-541(a) (1988 and Supp. 1992), was not an offense under § 23-1329 until a *698 judge incorporated the statutory drug offense into his release order.
In this situation, in which the contempt sanction is imposed for violating the order through commission of the incorporated drug offense, the later attempt to prosecute Dixon for the drug offense resembles the situation that produced our judgment of double jeopardy in Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977) (per curiam). There we held that a subsequent prosecution for robbery with a firearm was barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause, because the defendant had already been tried for felony murder based on the same underlying felony. We have described our terse per curiam in Harris as standing for the proposition that, for double jeopardy purposes, "the crime generally described as felony murder" is not "a separate offense distinct from its various elements." Illinois v. Vitale, 447 U. S. 410, 420-421 (1980). Accord, Whalen v. United States, 445 U. S. 684, 694 (1980). So too here, the "crime" of violating a condition of release cannot be abstracted from the "element" of the violated condition. The Dixon court order incorporated the entire governing criminal code in the same manner as the Harris felony-murder statute incorporated the several enumerated felonies. Here, as in Harris, the underlying substantive criminal offense is "a species of lesser-included offense."[2]Vitale, supra, a
Passage 2:
Supreme Court case to endorse the Blockburger rule. Brown, supra, at 168. Quoting that suspect dictum multiple times, see post, at 748, 754, cannot convert it into case law. See United States Nat. Bank of Ore. v. Independent Ins. Agents of America, Inc., 508 U. S. 439, 463, n. 11 (1993) (emphasizing "the need to distinguish an opinion's holding from its dicta"). The holding of Brown,  like that of Nielsen, rests squarely upon the existence of a lesser included offense. 432 U. S., at 162 (setting out question presented).
The third case is Harris, which Justice Souter asserts was a reaffirmation of what he contends was the earlier holding in Nielsen, that the Blockburger test is "insufficien[t] for determining when a successive prosecution [is] barred," and that conduct, and not merely elements of the offense, must be the object of inquiry. Post, at 755. Surely not. Harris  never uses the word "conduct," and its entire discussion focuses on the elements of the two offenses. See, e. g., <targetCase>433 U. S., at 682-683</targetCase>, n. (to prove felony murder, "it was necessary for all the ingredients of the underlying felony" to be proved). Far from validating Justice Souter's extraordinarily implausible reading of Nielsen, Harris plainly rejects that reading, treating the earlier case as having focused (like Blockburger ) upon the elements of the offense. Immediately *707 after stating that conviction for felony murder, a "greater crime," "cannot be had without conviction of the lesser crime," the Harris Court quotes Nielsen `s statement that "`a person [who] has been tried and convicted for a crime which has various incidents included in it, . . . cannot be a second time tried for one of those incidents.' " <targetCase>433 U. S., at 682-683</targetCase>, quoting from 131 U. S., at 188. It is clear from that context that Harris regarded "incidents included" to mean "offenses included"—a reference to defined crimes rather than to conduct.
Finally, Justice Souter misdescribes Vitale. Despite his bold assertion to the contrary, see post, at 757, Vitale  unquestionably reads Harris as merely an application of the double jeopardy bar to lesser and greater included offenses.[11] Justice Souter instead elevates the statement in Vitale  that, on certain hypothetical facts, the petitioner would have a "substantial" "claim" of double jeopardy on a Grady -type theory, see post, at 756-757, into a holding that the petitioner would win on that theory. Post, at 757, 763. No Justice, the Vitale dissenters included, has ever construed this passage as answering, rather than simply raising, the question on which we later granted certiorari in Grady. See 447 U. S., at 426 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (in addition to finding the same-conduct claim "substant
Passage 3:
nconsistent with the text and history of the Double Jeopardy Clause, was a departure from our earlier precedents, and has proven difficult to apply, the Court concludes that Grady must be overruled. I do not join Part III of Justice Scalia's opinion because I think that none of the criminal prosecutions in this case were barred under Blockburger. I must then confront the expanded version of double jeopardy embodied in Grady.  For the reasons set forth in the dissent in Grady, supra, at 526 (opinion of Scalia, J.), and in Part IV of the Court's opinion, I, too, think that Grady must be overruled. I *714 therefore join Parts I, II, and IV of the Court's opinion, and write separately to express my disagreement with Justice Scalia's application of Blockburger in Part III.
In my view, Blockburger `s same-elements test requires us to focus, not on the terms of the particular court orders involved, but on the elements of contempt of court in the ordinary sense. Relying on Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977), a three-paragraph per curiam in an unargued case, Justice Scalia concludes otherwise today, and thus incorrectly finds in Part III—A of his opinion that the subsequent prosecutions of Dixon for drug distribution and of Foster for assault violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. In so doing, Justice Scalia rejects the traditional view—shared by every Federal Court of Appeals and State Supreme Court that addressed the issue prior to Grady —that, as a general matter, double jeopardy does not bar a subsequent prosecution based on conduct for which a defendant has been held in criminal contempt. I cannot subscribe to a reading of Harris that upsets this previously well-settled principle of law. Because the generic crime of contempt of court has different elements than the substantive criminal charges in this case, I believe that they are separate offenses under Blockburger. I would therefore limit Harris to the context in which it arose: where the crimes in question are analogous to gr
Passage 4:
purposes of double jeopardy if "each provision requires proof of a fact which the other does not." 284 U. S., at 304 (emphasis added). Applying this test to the offenses at bar, it is clear that the elements of the governing contempt provision are entirely different from the elements of the substantive crimes. Contempt of court comprises two elements: (i) a court order made known to the defendant, followed by (ii) willful violation of that order. In re Gorfkle, 444 A. 2d 934, 939 (D. C. 1982); In re Thompson, 454 A. 2d 1324, 1326 (D. C. 1982). Neither of those elements is necessarily satisfied by proof that a defendant has committed the substantive offenses of assault or drug distribution. Likewise, no element of either of those substantive offenses is necessarily satisfied by proof that a defendant has been found guilty of contempt of court.
Justice Scalia grounds his departure from Blockburger `s customary focus on the statutory elements of the crimes charged on Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>supra</targetCase>, an improbable font of authority. See ante, at 698. A summary reversal, like Harris, "does not enjoy the full precedential value of a case argued on the merits." Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 U. S. 1, 12, n. 4 (1991); accord, Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U. S. 651, 671 (1974). Today's decision shows the pitfalls inherent in reading too much into a "terse per curiam. " Ante, at 698. Justice Scalia's discussion of Harris is nearly as long as Harris itself and consists largely of a quote, not from Harris, but from a subsequent opinion analyzing Harris.  Justice Scalia then concludes that Harris somehow requires us to look to the facts that must be proved under the particular court orders in question (rather than under the general law of criminal contempt) in determining whether contempt and the related substantive offenses are the same for double jeopardy purposes. This interpretation of Harris is both unprecedented and mistaken.
Our double jeopardy cases applying Blockburger have focused on the s
Passage 5:
dy Clause as either assault with intent to kill or possession of cocaine with intent to distribute it. I write separately to emphasize two interrelated points.

I
I agree with Justice Souter that "the Blockburger test is not the exclusive standard for determining whether the rule against successive prosecutions applies in a given case." Post, at 756. I also share both his and Justice White's dismay that the Court so cavalierly has overruled a precedent that is barely three years old and that has proved neither unworkable nor unsound. I continue to believe that Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S. 508 (1990), was correctly decided, and that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits a subsequent criminal prosecution where the proof required to convict on the later offense would require proving conduct that constitutes an offense for which a defendant already has been prosecuted.
If this were a case involving successive prosecutions under the substantive criminal law (as was true in Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977), Illinois v. Vitale, 447 U. S. 410 (1980), and Grady ), I would agree that the Double Jeopardy *742 Clause could bar the subsequent prosecution. But we are concerned here with contempt of court, a special situation. We explained in Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et Fils S. A., 481 U. S. 787 (1987):
"The fact that we have come to regard criminal contempt as `a crime in the ordinary sense,' [Bloom v. Illi- nois, 391 U. S. 194, 201 (1968)], does not mean that any prosecution of contempt must now be considered an execution of the criminal law in which only the Executive Branch may engage. . . . That criminal procedure protections are now required in such prosecutions should not obscure the fact that these proceedings are not intended to punish conduct proscribed as harmful by the general criminal laws. Rather, they are designed to serve the limited purpose of vindicating the authority of the court. In punishing contempt, the Judiciary is sanctioning conduct that violates sp
Passage 6:
rown v. Ohio, 432 U. S., at 166-167, n. 6. The Brown Court, indeed, relied on Nielsen for this proposition. "[I]n In re Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176 (1889), the Court held that a conviction of a Mormon on a charge of cohabiting with his two wives over a 2 12-year period barred a subsequent prosecution for adultery with one of them on the day following the end of that period . . . . [S]trict application of the Blockburger test would have permitted *755 imposition of consecutive sentences had the charges been consolidated in a single proceeding. . . . [C]onviction for adultery required proof that the defendant had sexual intercourse with one woman while married to another; conviction for cohabitation required proof that the defendant lived with more than one woman at the same time. Nonetheless, the Court . . . held the separate offenses to be the `same.' " Ibid. 
In the past 20 years the Court has addressed just this problem of successive prosecution on three occasions. In Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977) (per curiam), we held that prosecution for a robbery with firearms was barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause when the defendant had already been convicted of felony murder comprising the same robbery with firearms as the underlying felony. Of course the elements of the two offenses were different enough to permit more than one punishment under the Blockburger  test: felony murder required the killing of a person by one engaged in the commission of a felony, see 21 Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, § 701 (1971); robbery with firearms required the use of a firearm in the commission of a robbery, see §§ 801, 791. Harris v. State, 555 P. 2d 76, 80 (Okla. Crim. App. 1976), rev'd, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977).
In Harris, however, we held that "[w]hen, as here, conviction of a greater crime, murder, cannot be had without conviction of the lesser crime, robbery with firearms, the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution for the lesser crime after conviction of the greater one." We justified that conclusion in the circumstances of the case by quoting Nielsen `s explanation of the Blockburger test's insufficiency for determining when a successive prosecution was barred. "`[A] person [who] has been tried and convicted for a crime which has various incidents included in it . . . cannot be a second time tried for one of those incidents without being twice put in jeopardy for the same offence.' In re Nielsen, *756 [131 U. S.,] at 188." <targetCase>433 U. S., at 682-683</targetCase> (citations and footnote omitted).[7]
Just as in Nielsen, the analysis in Harris turned on considering the prior conviction in terms of the conduct actually charged. While that process might be viewed as a misapplication of a Blockburger lesser included offense analysis, the crucial point is that the Blockburger elements test would have produced a different result. The case thus follows the holding in Nielsen and conforms to the statement already quoted from Brown, that the Blockburger test is not the exclusive standard for determining whether the rule against successive prosecutions applies in a given case.
Subsequently, in Illinois v. Vitale, 447 U. S. 410 (1980), the Court again indicated that a valid claim of double jeopardy would not necessarily be defeated by the fact that the two offenses are not the "same" under the Blockburger test. In that case, we were confronted with a prosecution for failure to reduce speed and a subsequent prosecution for involuntary manslaughter. The opi
Passage 7:
ow were always necessarily included within the elements of involuntary manslaughter by automobile, and we remanded for clarification of this point, among other things. We held that "[i]f, as a matter of Illinois law, a careless failure to slow is always a necessary element of manslaughter by automobile, then the two offenses are the `same' under Blockburger and Vitale's trial on the latter charge would constitute double jeopardy . . . ." 447 U. S., at 419-420. But that was not all. Writing for the Court, Justice White went on to say that, "[i]n any event, it may be that to sustain its manslaughter case the State may find it necessary *757 to prove a failure to slow or to rely on conduct necessarily involving such failure . . . . In that case, because Vitale has already been convicted for conduct that is a necessary element of the more serious crime for which he has been charged, his claim of double jeopardy would be substantial under Brown and our later decision in Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977)." Id., at 420.
Over a decade ago, then, we clearly understood Harris to stand for the proposition that when one has already been tried for a crime comprising certain conduct, a subsequent prosecution seeking to prove the same conduct is barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause.[8] This is in no way inconsistent with Vitale `s description of Harris as "treat[ing] a killing in the course of a robbery as itself a separate statutory offense, and the robbery as a species of lesser-included offense." 447 U. S., at 420. The very act of "treating" it that way was a departure from straight Blockburger analysis; it was the same departure taken by the Nielsen Court. Vitale read Harris (which itself quoted Nielsen ) to hold that even if the Blockburger test were satisfied, a second prosecution would not be permitted for conduct comprising the criminal act charged in the first. Nielsen and Harris used the word "incident," while Vitale used the word "conduct," but no matter which word is used to
Passage 8:
rtion.
[2]  Justice Scalia suggests that the dicta in those earlier cases are of limited value in light of Bloom v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 194 (1968), which held that the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial applies to nonsummary contempt prosecutions. But there is simply no reason to think that the dicta in those cases were based on the understanding that prosecutions for contempt were not subject to the Double Jeopardy Clause. Rather, the principal theme running through the pre-Grady cases is that, while nonsummary contempt is a criminal prosecution, that prosecution and the later one for a substantive offense involve two separate and distinct offenses.
[3]  The Court's discussion of the use of the contempt power at common law and in 19th-century America, see ante, at 694-695, does not undercut the relevance of these later, pre-Grady decisions—most of which are from the late 20th century—to the instant case.
[1]  Assuming, arguendo, that Justice Scalia's reading of Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977), is accurate, and that we must look to the terms of the particular court orders involved, I believe Justice Scalia is correct in differentiating among the various counts in Foster. The court order there provided that Foster must "`not molest, assault, or in any manner threaten or physically abuse' " his estranged wife. App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a. For Foster to be found in contempt of court, his wife need have proved only that he had knowledge of the court order and that he assaulted or threatened her, but not that he assaulted her with intent to kill (Count V) or that he threatened to inflict bodily harm (Counts II—IV). So the crime of criminal contempt in Foster, even if analyzed under Justice Scalia's reading of Harris, is nonetheless a different offense under Blockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299 (1932), than the crimes alleged in Counts II—V of the indictment, since "each provision requires proof of a fact which the other does not." Id., at 304. Because Justice Scalia
Passage 9:
threats as defined by the law. Moreover, I note that the Government's presentation of this case coincides with this view. See Brief for United States 26 (describing the order not to "assault or in any manner threaten" as "direct[ing] Foster . . . to refrain from engaging in criminal conduct").

In any event, even assuming that the prohibition in the court order referred to threats other than those already outlawed, that should not change the outcome of this case. The offense prohibited in the CPO—to threaten "in any manner"—at the very least is "an incident and part of," In re Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176, 187 (1889),the offense of criminal threat defined in § 22-2307. Therefore, for reasons explained below, prosecution for one should preclude subsequent prosecution for the other.
[9]  Therefore, I obviously disagree with The Chief Justice's Blockburger analysis which would require overruling not only Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S. 508 (1990), but, as Justice Scalia explains, Harris v.Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977), as well. See ante, at 698. At the very least, where conviction of the crime of contempt cannot be had without conviction of a statutory crime forbidden by court order, the Double Jeopardy Clause bars prosecution for the latter after acquittal or conviction of the former.
[10]  Similar results follow, of course, from The Chief Justice's interpretation of the Clause.
[1]  Justice Scalia's dismissal of this concern is difficult to follow. As I understand it, he maintains that no double jeopardy problem exists because under Blockburger a conviction for assault would not be upheld. See ante, at 702, n. 7. I suppose that the judge could upon request instruct the jury on the lesser included offense and await its verdict; if it were to find Foster guilty of simple assault, the court could then vacate the conviction as violative of the Double Jeopardy Clause—or, barring that, Foster could appeal his conviction on that basis. The sheer oddity of this scenario aside, it falls short of pr
Passage 10:
the same protection inheres after an acquittal. See North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U. S. 711, 717 (1969).
[8]  In Brown we recognized that "[a]n exception may exist where the State is unable to proceed on the more serious charge at the outset because the additional facts necessary to sustain that charge have not occurred or have not been discovered despite the exercise of due diligence." 432 U. S., at 169, n. 7.
[9]  It is true that in light of its decision to remand the case to provide the State further opportunity to put forward some other basis for its prosecution, the Vitale Court, appropriately, described the claim only as "substantial." The important point, however, is the way in which the Court in Vitale (and, for that matter, the dissent in that case, see 447 U. S., at 426 (opinion of Stevens, J.)) read the Harris opinion.
[10]  Indeed, at least where the common elements of the offenses themselves describe a separate criminal offense, the Court's reading of Harris v. Oklahoma, <targetCase>433 U. S. 682</targetCase> (1977), is apparently inconsistent even with the historical understanding of the Clause put forward by three of the dissenters in Grady. See Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S. 508, 531 (1990) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (quoting 1 T. Starkie, Criminal Pleading, ch. xix, pp. 322-323 (2d ed. 1822)) ("`[I]f one charge consist of the circumstances A. B. C. and another of the circumstances A. D. E. then, if the circumstance which belongs to them in common does not of itself constitute a distinct substantive offence, an acquittal from the one charge cannot include an acquittal of the other' ") (emphasis supplied).
[11]  I agree, therefore, with Justice White that the element of knowledge of a court order is irrelevant for double jeopardy purposes. See ante, at 734 (opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part).
[]  I note that atleast the charge concerning assault with intent to kill would apparently have been barred under the approach taken in Justice Scalia's dissenting opinion in G