Passage 1:
n though Alabama law expressly disavowed any such waiver:
"By enacting the [FELA] . . . Congress conditioned the right to operate a railroad in interstate commerce upon amenability to suit in federal court as provided by the Act; by thereafter operating a railroad in interstate commerce, Alabama must be taken to have accepted that condition and thus to have consented to suit." 377 U.S., at 192.
The four dissenting Justices in Parden refused to infer a waiver because Congress had not "expressly declared" that a State operating in commerce would be subject to liability, but they went on to acknowledge—in a concession that, strictly speaking, was not necessary to their analysis—that Congress possessed the power to effect such a waiver of the State's constitutionally protected immunity so long as it did so with clarity. Id., at 198-200 (opinion of White, J.).
Only nine years later, in Employees of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., <targetCase>411 U.S. 279 </targetCase>(1973), we began to retreat from Parden. That case held—in an opinion written by one of the Parden dissenters over the solitary dissent of Parden's author—that the State of Missouri was immune from a suit brought under the Fair Labor Standards Act by employees of its state health facilities. Although the statute specifically covered the state hospitals in question, see 29 U.S. C. § 203(d) (1964 ed.), and such coverage was unquestionably enforceable in federal court by the United <targetCase>States, 411 U.S., at 285-286</targetCase>, we did not think that the statute expressed with clarity Congress's intention to supersede the States' immunity from suits brought by individuals. We "put to one side" the Parden case, which we characterized as involving "dramatic circumstances" and "a rather isolated state activity," *678 411 U. S., at 285, unlike the provision of the Fair Labor Standards Act in question that applied to a broad class of state employees. We also distinguished the railroad in Parden on the ground that it was "operated for profit" "in the area where private persons and corporations normally ran the <targetCase>enterprise." 411 U.S., at 284</targetCase>. Justice Marshall, joined by Justice Stewart, went even further, concluding that although, in their view, Congress had clearly purported to subject the States to suits by individuals in federal courts, it lacked the constitutional authority to do so. Id., at 287, 289-290 (opinion concurring in result).
The next year, we observed (in dictum) that there is "no place" for the doctrine of constructive waiver in our sovereign-immunity jurisprudence, and we emphasized that we would "find waiver only where stated by the most express language or by such overwhelming implications from the text as [will] leave no room for any other reasonable construction." Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U.S. 651, 673 (1974) (internal quotation marks omitted). Several Terms later, in Welch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., 483 U.S. 468 (1987), although we expressly avoided addressing the constitutionality of Congress's conditioning a State's engaging in Commerce Clause activity upon the State's waiver of s
Passage 2:
ore compelling and oppressive for Congress to threaten to withhold from a State funds needed to educate its children than to threaten to subject it to suit when it competes directly with a private investment company. See id., at 5 (Federal Government provided over $21 billion to States for education in 1998). The distinction that the majority seeks to make—drawn in terms of gifts and entitlements—does not exist.
The majority is also wrong to say that this Court has "narrowed" Parden in its "subsequent opinion[s]," ante, at 680, at least in any way relevant to today's decision. Parden considered two separate issues: (1) Does Congress have the power to require a State to waive its immunity? (2) How clearly must Congress speak when it does so? The Court has narrowed Parden only in respect to the second issue, not the first; but today we are concerned only with the first. The Court in Employees of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., <targetCase>411 U.S. 279 </targetCase>(1973), for example, discussed whether Congress had, or had not, "lift[ed]" sovereign immunity, not whether it could, or could not, have done so. Id., at 285 *698 ("Congress did not lift the sovereign immunity of the States" (emphasis added)). And Employees' limitation of Parden,  to "the area where private persons and corporations normally ran the enterprise," took place in the context of clarity, not power. 411 U. S., at 284 (specifying that "Congress can act" outside the limited area (emphasis added)). Although two Justices would have limited Parden's holding in respect to power, that limitation would simply have required Congress to give the States advance notice of the consequence (loss of sovereign immunity), which, as they noted, happened in Parden. 411 U. S., at 296-297 (Marshall, J., concurring in result).
The remaining cases the majority mentions offer it no greater support. One said, "We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Con
Passage 3:
ifferent question whether substantive provisions of Commerce Clause legislation applied to the States. The former concerned a suit brought against a State by the United States (a situation in which state sovereign immunity does not exist, see United States v. Texas, 143 U.S. 621 (1892)), and the latter expressly acknowledged that "the Eleventh Amendment" was "not before us," 353 U.S., at 568, n. 16. The last case, Gardner v. New Jersey, 329 U.S. 565 (1947), which held that a bankruptcy court can entertain a trustee's objections to a claim filed by a State, stands for the unremarkable proposition that a State waives its sovereign immunity by voluntarily invoking the jurisdiction of the federal courts. See supra, at 675-676. In sum, none of these cases laid any foundation for Parden — whose author was quite correct in acknowledging that it "presented a question of first impression," Employees of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., <targetCase>411 U.S. 279</targetCase>, 299 (1973) (Brennan, J., dissenting).
[4]  As for the suggestion of Justice Breyer that we limit state sovereign immunity to noncommercial state activities because Congress has so limited foreign sovereign immunity, in accord with the "modern trend," see post, at 699 (dissenting opinion) (citing the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (FSIA), 28 U.S. C. § 1605(a)(2)), see also Justice Stevens's dissent, post, at 692: This proposal ignores the fact that state sovereign immunity, unlike foreign sovereign immunity, is a constitutional doctrine that is meant to be both immutable by Congress and resistant to trends. The text of the Eleventh Amendment, of course, makes no distinction between commercial and noncommercial state activities—and so if we were to combine Justice Breyer's literalistic interpretation of that Amendment with his affection for FSIA, we would have a "commercial activities" exception for all suits against States except those commenced in federal court by citizens