Passage 1:
so distinguished the railroad in Parden on the ground that it was "operated for profit" "in the area where private persons and corporations normally ran the enterprise." 411 U.S., at 284. Justice Marshall, joined by Justice Stewart, went even further, concluding that although, in their view, Congress had clearly purported to subject the States to suits by individuals in federal courts, it lacked the constitutional authority to do so. Id., at 287, 289-290 (opinion concurring in result).
The next year, we observed (in dictum) that there is "no place" for the doctrine of constructive waiver in our sovereign-immunity jurisprudence, and we emphasized that we would "find waiver only where stated by the most express language or by such overwhelming implications from the text as [will] leave no room for any other reasonable construction." Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U.S. 651, 673 (1974) (internal quotation marks omitted). Several Terms later, in Welch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., <targetCase>483 U.S. 468 </targetCase>(1987), although we expressly avoided addressing the constitutionality of Congress's conditioning a State's engaging in Commerce Clause activity upon the State's waiver of sovereign immunity, we said there was "no doubt that Parden's discussion of congressional intent to negate Eleventh Amendment immunity is no longer good law," and overruled Parden "to the extent [it] is inconsistent with the requirement that an abrogation of Eleventh Amendment immunity by Congress must be expressed in unmistakably clear <targetCase>language," 483 U.S., at 478</targetCase>, and n. 8.[2]
*679 College Savings and the United States concede, as they surely must, that these intervening decisions have seriously limited the holding of Parden. They maintain, however, that Employees and Welch are distinguishable, and that a core principle of Parden remains good law. A Parden -style waiver of immunity, they say, is still possible after Employees and Welch so long as the following two conditions are satisfied: First, Congress must provide unambiguously that the State will be subject to suit if it engages in certain specified conduct governed by federal regulation. Second, the State must voluntarily elect to engage in the federally regulated conduct that subjects it to suit. In this latter regard, their argument goes, a State is never deemed to have constructively waived its sovereign immunity by engaging in activities that it cannot realistically choose to abandon, such *680 as the operation of a police force; but constructive waiver is appropriate where a State r
Passage 2:
gress did not lift the sovereign immunity of the States" (emphasis added)). And Employees' limitation of Parden,  to "the area where private persons and corporations normally ran the enterprise," took place in the context of clarity, not power. 411 U. S., at 284 (specifying that "Congress can act" outside the limited area (emphasis added)). Although two Justices would have limited Parden's holding in respect to power, that limitation would simply have required Congress to give the States advance notice of the consequence (loss of sovereign immunity), which, as they noted, happened in Parden. 411 U. S., at 296-297 (Marshall, J., concurring in result).
The remaining cases the majority mentions offer it no greater support. One said, "We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Congress to subject unconsenting States to suit in federal court is not confined to ยง 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment." Welch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., <targetCase>483 U.S. 468</targetCase>, 475 (1987). Two others also considered legislative clarity, not power. Atascadero State Hospital, supra, at 247 (Rehabilitation Act "falls far short" of clearly indicating a waiver by a State accepting funds under the Act); Edelman  v. Jordan, 415 U.S. 651, 674 (1974) (same for Social Security Act). Even Seminole Tribe carefully avoided calling Parden into question. While specifying that Congress cannot, in the exercise of its Article I powers, "abrogate unilaterally the States' immunity from suit," 517 U.S., at 59, it left open the scope of the term "unilaterally" by referring to Parden,  without criticism, as standing for the "unremarkable, and completely unrelated, proposition that the States may waive their sovereign immunity," 517 U.S., at 65. In short, except for those in today's majority, no member of this Court had ever questioned the holding of Parden that the Court today discards because it cannot find "merit in attempting to salvage any remnant of it." Ante, at 680.
*699 P