Passage 1:
that proposition, and in formally overruling Parden we do no more than make explicit what that case implied.
Recognizing a congressional power to exact constructive waivers of sovereign immunity through the exercise of Article I powers would also, as a practical matter, permit Congress to circumvent the antiabrogation holding of Seminole Tribe. Forced waiver and abrogation are not even different sides of the same coin—they are the same side of the same coin. "All congressional creations of private rights of action attach recovery to the defendant's commission of some act, or possession of some status, in a field where Congress has authority to regulate conduct. Thus, all federal prescriptions are, insofar as their prospective application is concerned, in a sense conditional, and—to the extent that the objects of the prescriptions consciously engage in the activity or hold the status that produces liability—can be redescribed as invitations to `waiver.'" Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., <targetCase>491 U.S. 1</targetCase>, 43 (1989) (Scalia, J., dissenting). See also Fitzpatrick, 427 U. S., at 451-452 (referring to congressional intent to "abrogate" state sovereign immunity as a "necessary predicate" for Parden -style waiver). There is little more than a verbal distinction between saying that Congress can make Florida liable to private parties for false or misleading advertising in interstate commerce of its prepaid tuition program, and saying the same thing but adding *684 at the end "if Florida chooses to engage in such advertising." As further evidence that constructive waiver is little more than abrogation under another name, consider the revealing facts of this case: The statutory provision relied upon to demonstrate that Florida constructively waived its sovereign immunity is the very same provision that purported to abrogate it.
Nor do we think that the constitutionally grounded principle of state sovereign immunity is any less robust where, as here, the asserted basis for constructive waiver is
Passage 2:
of course, makes no distinction between commercial and noncommercial state activities—and so if we were to combine Justice Breyer's literalistic interpretation of that Amendment with his affection for FSIA, we would have a "commercial activities" exception for all suits against States except those commenced in federal court by citizens of another State, a disposition that hardly "makes sense," post, at 699.
[5]  Justice Breyer purports to "accept this Court's pre-Seminole Tribe  sovereign immunity decisions," post, at 699 (dissenting opinion), but by that he could not mean Hans, but rather only the distorted view of Hans  that prevailed briefly between Parden and Seminole Tribe. Parden was the first case to suggest that the sovereign immunity announced in Hans  was so fragile a flower that it could be abrogated under Article I—a suggestion contrary to the reality that Hans itself involved a congressional conferral of jurisdiction enacted under Article I. See Pennsylvania v. Union Gas, <targetCase>491 U.S. 1</targetCase>, 36-37 (1989) (Scalia, J., dissenting). Moreover, that conferral of jurisdiction was combined, in Hans, with a substantive claim under the Contracts Clause of the Constitution itself, which one would think to have greater, rather than lesser, abrogative force than a substantive statute enacted pursuant to the Commerce Clause. Justice Breyer would apparently interpose that the statute in Hans did not expressly "`purpor[t] to pierce state immunity,'" post, at 700, quoting Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 119 (Souter, J., dissenting)—but the opinion in Hans did not allude to that refinement, nor did Parden think it made any difference. The so-called "clear statement rule" was not even adumbrated until nine years after Parden, in Employees, 411 U. S., at 284-285. It is difficult to square Justice Breyer's reliance upon the distinction that the present case involves a federal question (and is therefore not explicitly covered by the Eleventh Amendment), see post, at 700-701, with its professed fidelity to Hans, the whole point of which was that the sovereign immunity reflected in (rather than created by) the Eleventh Amendment transcends the narrow text of the Amendment itself. Or to put it differently, the "pre-Seminole Tribe sovereign immunity decisions" to which Justice Breyer pledges allegiance appear to include Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419 (1793). But see U. S. Const., Amdt. 11.
[1]  See 28 U.S. C. § 1605(a)(2) (commercial activity exception to foreign sovereign immunity). The statute provides the following definition of "commercial activity": "either a regular course of commercial conduct or a particular commercial transaction or act. The commercial character of an activity shall be determined by reference to the nature of the course of conduct or particular transaction or act, rather than by reference to its purpose." § 1603(d).
[2]  As we held in Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., <targetCase>491 U.S. 1</targetCase>, 23 (1989), the Commerce Clause granted Congress the power to abrogate the States' common-law defense of sovereign immunity. I remain convinced that that case was correctly decided for the reasons stated in the principal and concurring opinions.