**Combined Opinion**
 The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State appears to have been formed upon full consideration of the difficulties of.  the case; and is entitled to great weight, especially upon the construction of the statute of the State.  Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427 .  And this court, on reconsideration of the ' whole matter, with the aid of the various judicial opinions upon the subject, and of the learned briefs of counsel, is of opinion that the sound construction of this will, as to the extent of the power conferred on the widow, is in accordance with the conclusion of the state court, and not with the former decision of this court, which must, therefore, be considered as overruled.  The testator’s primary object manifestly was to provide for his widow.  He begins by giving her “ all my estate, real and personal,” which of itself would carry a fee, unless restricted by other words.  Lambert v. Paine, <citedDecision>3 Cranch, 97</citedDecision> .  He then- says “ to be and remain hers,” which, upon any possible construction, secures to her the full, use and enjoyment of the estate, while she holds it.  She is also vested, in the most comprehensive terms, “ with full power, right and authority to dispose of the same ” (which, as no less title has yet been' mentioned, naturally means the whole estate) “ as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow.” This last clause, so far as it controls the previous words, has full effect if construed as limiting the time during which the widow may have the use and enjoyment of the estate, and the power to dispose of it, and not restricting the subject to be disposed'of.  The power thus conferred, therefore, in its own terms, as well as by'th'e general intent of the testator, gives her during widowhood the right to sell and convey an absolute title in any part of the estate; for it would be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain an adequate price for a title liable to be defeated in the hands of the purchaser by the widow’s marrying again.  That the power was intended to be unlimited in this respect appears, even more distinctly, by the terms of the next clause, *378 by which, if she should marry again, the testator declares, it to be his will that “all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain, should go” to his surviving children.  By not using the technical word “ remainder,” or making the devise over include the entire estate at all events, but carefully adding, after the words “all the estate herein bequeathed,” the alternative “ or whatever may remain ” (which would otherwise have no meaning) he clearly manifests his intention to restrict the estate given to the children to whatever has not been disposed of by the widow; and there is nothing upon the face of the will, nor are there any extrinsic facts in this record, having any tendency to show that the power of the widow is less absolute over the real estate than over the personal property.  The cases of Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68 , and Brant v. Virginia Coal Co., 93 U. S. 326 , relied on in support of the opposite conclusion, involved the construction of wills expressed in different language from that now before the court. In Smith v. Bell , the testator bequeathed “ all his personal estate,” consisting principally of slaves, to his wife, “ to and for her own use and benefit and disposal absolutely, the remainder of said estate, after her decease, to be for the use of” his son; and the decision was that the wife took a life estate only, and the son a vested remainder.