**Combined Opinion**
 It is urged, however, that the statute is invalid under the rule of Lake Shore &c. R. Co. v. Smith ( 173 U. S. 684 ).  In that case the statutes of Michigan had fixed a maximum passenger rate ab three cents per mile.  A subsequent enactment required the issuing of mileage books for 1,000 miles, good for two years, at a less rate.  The court held that having fixed a' uniform maximum rate as to all passengers, such rate was the reasonable compensation for the service, and that the fixing of a less rate to particular individuals was an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of legislative power; that it was not for the convenience of the public and thus within the police power, but was for the convenience of certain individuals who were permitted to travel upon the railroads for less than the reasonable rate prescribed by law; that the law was, therefore, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution in depriving the company of its property without due process of law and by depriving it of the equal protection of the laws.  “In Beardsley v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co. ( 162 N. Y. 230 ) the Court of Appeals felt constrained by the Smith case to declare the Mileage Book Law of this State invalid as to companies in existence at the time of its passage, but in Purdy v. Erie R. R. Co. ( 162 N. Y. 43 ) that law was held valid as to companies organized after the statute was passed.  “In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky ( 183 U. S. 503 ), after citing the Smith case and like cases, the court says (at p. 511): 'Nor, yet, are we ready to carry the *14 doctrine of the cited cases beyond the limits therein established.’ “In the Minnesota Rate Case (Simpson v. Shepard, 230 U. S. 352 ) the legality of an order of the Commission of that State was recognized which fixed a maximum freight rate and passenger rate, the latter at two cents a mile as the maximum fare for passengers twelve years of age or over, and one cent a mile for those under twelve years of age.  “In Interstate R. Co. v. Massachusetts ( <citedDecision>207 U. S. 79</citedDecision> ) the Massachusetts law prescribing special rates less than the maximum for school children was held valid.  These cases indicate that the Smith case is not to be extended beyond the facts upon which it rests.  “The Smith case distinguishes itself from this case where the court (at p. 693) says: 'This act is not like one establishing certain hours in the day during which trains shall be run for a less charge than during the other hours.  In such case it is the establishing of maximum rates of fare for the whole public during those hours, and it is not a discrimination in favor of certain persons by which they can obtain lower rates by purchasing a certain number of tickets by reason of which the company is compelled to carry them at the reduced rate, and thus, in substance, to part with its property at a less sum than it would be otherwise entitled to charge.  The power to compel the company to carry persons under the circumstances as provided for in this act, .for less than the usual rates, does not seem to be based upon any reason which has hitherto been regarded as sufficient to authorize an interference with the corporation, although a common carrier and a railroad.’ • '' Our flourishing cities owe their position and prosperity, in part, to the commutation rates for suburban service; the health and welfare of the public are concerned that people doing business in the large cities may live in the *15 country where the surroundings are pleasanter, more healthy arid to the advantage of themselves and their families.  It is a known fact that such rates exist upon all railways entering large cities, and have usually been established by the companies voluntarily in the interest of themselves and the public.  The service is different in its nature from the other passenger service.