**Combined Opinion**
 The argument that it .is in the nature of a franchise or privilege bestowed by the Government, is met by the fact that it is not a franchise or privilege to be exercised on behalf of the Government or in performing a function of the Government.  The ‘ mining claim’ above mentioned, or the possessory right to explore and work a mine under the applicable Federal laws and regulations, may also be regarded as a franchise or privilege, but the Court found the right to be none the less taxable, observing in Forbes v. Gracey, supra, that “ those claims are the subject of bargain and sale and constitute very largely the wealth of the Pacific coast States.” Copyright is a right exercised by the owner during the term at his pleasure and exclusively for his own profit and forms the basis for extensive and profitable business enterprises.  The advantage to the public is gained merely from the carrying out of the general policy in making such grants and not from any direct interest which the Government has in the use of the property which is the subject of the grants.  After the copyright has been granted the Government has no interest in any action under it save the general one that its laws shall be obeyed.  Operations of the owner in multiplying copies, in sales, in performances or exhibitions, or in licensing others for such purposes, are manifestly not the operations of the Government.  A tax upon the gains derived from such operations is not a tax upon the exertion of any governmental function.  In Gillespie v. Oklahoma, <citedDecision>257 U. S. 501</citedDecision> , the question concerned income derived from leases of restricted Indian lands.  The leases were deemed to be instrumentalities of the United States in carrying out its duties to the Indians, and the Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Holmes, concluded that the tax imposed by'Oklahoma was “ a direct *131 hamper upon the effort of the United States to make the best terms that it can for its wards.” Id., p. 506.  A similar result was reached in the recent ruling in relation to what was deemed to be the correlative case of leases by Oklahoma of lands held by the State for the support of its schools.  Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Company, 285 U. S. 393 .  These decisions are not controlling here.  The nature and purpose of copyrights place them in a distinct category and we are unable to find any basis for the supposition that a nondiscriminatory tax on royalties hampers in the slightest degree the execution of the policy of the copyright statute.  We agree, however, with the contention that in this aspect royalties from copyrights stand in the same position as royalties from the use of patent rights, and what we have said as to the purposes of the Government in relation to copyrights applies as well, mutatis mutandis, to patents which are granted under the same constitutional authority to promote the progress of science and useful arts. The affirmance of the judgment in the instant case cannot be reconciled with the decision in Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142 , upon which appellant relies, and in view of the conclusions now reached upon a re-examination of the question, that case is definitely overruled.