**Dissenting Opinion**
 that entitled to great respect are the reasoned conclusions of these eminent American jurists as to the true, intent and meaning of the Constitution of the United States.  And similarly worthy of attention are, the opinions of the Attorneys General and other public officials following the reasoning of Chief Justice Taney. *298 Now the Court cites, as if entitled to prevail against those well-sustained opinions and the deliberate judgments of this Court, opposing views — if indeed upon examination they reasonably may be so deemed — of English speaking judges in foreign countries.  It refers, footnote 6, to the decision of the Privy Council in Judges v. Attorney-General of Saskatchewan (1937), 2 D. L. R. 209, construing income tax statutes of Saskatchewan.  Neither the Dominion nor the Province has any law forbidding diminution of compensation of judges while in office and that decision has nothing to do with the question before us.  The Australian and South African cases cited, footnotes 6 and 8, involved construction of income tax statutes under constitutions or charters created by legislative enactments and subject to authoritative interpretation or change by the local or British parliament.  They shed no light upon the issue in this case. The opinion claims no support from any state court decision.  The one it cites,;footnote 8, that of the Maryland Court of Appeals in Gordy v. Dennis, <citedDecision>5 A. 2d 69</citedDecision> , held that under a clause in the Constitution of Maryland like that in Art. Ill, § 1, the compensation of state judges may not be taxed.  The opinion also cites, footnote 7, selected gainsaying writings of professors, — some are lawyers and some are not — but without specification of or reference to the reasons upon which their views rest. And in addition it cites notes published in law reviews, some signed and some not; presumably the latter were prepared by law students.  The suggestion that, as citizens, judges are not immune from taxation begs the question here presented; The Constitution itself puts judges in a separate class, declaring that at stated times they shall receive for their services compensation which “shall not be diminished.” And so their salaries are distinguished from income of *299 others.  The immunity extends only to compensation for their services.  No question of comparison or reasonableness is involved.  Admittedly the Court now repudiates its earlier decisions upon the point here in issue.  The provision defining tenure and providing for undiminishable compensation was adopted with unusual accord.