**Lead Opinion**
 Therefore, the power of Congress to include Judge Woodrough’s salary as a circuit judge in his “gross income” must be judged on the basis of the validity of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, and not as though that power had been originally asserted by the Revenue Act of 1936.  For it was the Act of June 6, 1932 that gave notice to all judges thereafter to be appointed, of .the new Congressional policy to include the judicial .salaries of.  such judges in the assessment of income taxes.  The fact that Judge Woodrough before he became a circuit judge and prior to June 6, 1932, had been 'a 1 district judge *280 is wholly irrelevant, to the matter in issue.  The two offices have different statutory origins, are filled by separate nominations and confirmations, and enjoy different emoluments.  A new appointee to a circuit court of appeals occupies a new office no less, when he is taken from the district bench than when he is drawn from the bar.  By means of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, Congress sought to avoid, at least in part, the consequences of Evans v. Gore, <citedDecision>253 U. S. 245</citedDecision> .  That case, decided on June 1, 1920, ruled for the first time that a provision requiring the compensation received by the judges of the United States to be included in the “gross income” from which the net income is to be computed, although merely part of a taxing measure of general, non-discriminatory application to all earners of incomes, is contrary to Article III, § 1, of the Constitution which provides that the “Compensation” of the “Judges” “shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.” See also the separate opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Pollock v. Farmers’ Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 586 , 604 et seq. To be sure, in a letter to Secretary Chase, Chief Justice Taney expressed similar views.  1 In doing so, he merely gave his extra-judicial opinion, asserting at the same time that the question could not be adjudicated.  2 Chief Justice Taney’s vigorous views were shared by Attorney General Hoar.  3 Thereafter, both the Treasury Department 4 and Con *281 gress 5 acted upon this construction of the Constitution.  However, the meaning which <citedDecision>Evans</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Gore</citedDecision> imputed to the history which explains Article III, § 1, was contrary to the way in which it was read by other English-speaking courts.  6 The decision met wide and steadily growing disfavor from legal scholarship and professional opinion.  7 <citedDecision>Evans</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Gore</citedDecision> itself was rejected by most of the courts before whom the matter came after that decision.  8 Having regard to these circumstances, the question im--mediately before us is whether Congress exceeded its constitutional power in providing that United States judges *282 appointed after the Revenue Act of 1932 shall not enjoy immunity from the incidences of taxation to which everyone else within the defined classes of income is subjected.  Thereby, of course, Congress has committed itself to the position that a non-discriminatory tax laid generally on net income is not, when applied to the income of a federal judge, a diminution of his salary within the prohibition of Article III, § 1, of the Constitution.  To suggest that it makes inroads upon the independence of judges who took office after Congress had thus charged them with the common duties of citizenship, by making them bear their aliquot share of the cost .of maintaining the Government, is to trivialize the great historic experience on which the framers based the safeguards of Article III,.  § 1.  9 To subject them to a general tax is merely to recognize that judges are also citizens, and that their particular function in government does not generate an immunity from sharing'with their fellow citizens the material burden of the government whose Constitution and laws they are charged with administering.  After this case came here, Congress, by § 3 of the Public Salary Tax Act of 1939, amended § 22 (a) so as to make it applicable to “judges of courts of the United States who took office on or before June 6, 1932.” 10 That section, however, is not now before us.