**Combined Opinion**
 2 Since Connolly’s case was decided, nearly forty years ago, an impressive legislative movement bears witness to *146 general acceptance of the view that the differences between agriculture and industry call for differentiation in the formulation of public policy.  The states as well as the United States have sanctioned cooperative action by farmers; have restricted their amenability to the antitrust laws; have relieved their organizations from taxation.  See, e. g., Capper-Volstead Act, 42 Stat. 388 , 7 U. S. C. § 291 ; Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730 , 731, 15 U. S. C. § 17 ; § 101 (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, 53 Stat. 33 .  Such expressions of legislative policy have withstood challenge in the courts.  Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Tobacco Growers, 276 U. S. 71 .  3 Congress and the states have sometimes thought it necessary to control the supply and price of agricultural commodities within their respective spheres of jurisdiction, and the constitutional validity of these measures has been sustained.  Mulford v. Smith, <citedDecision>307 U. S. 38</citedDecision> ; United States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533 ; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502 .  At the core of all these enactments lies a conception of price and production policy for agriculture very different from that which underlies the demands made upon industry and commerce by anti-trust laws.  4 These vari *147 ous measures are manifestations of the fact that in our national economy agriculture expresses functions and forces different from the other elements in the total economic process.  Certainly these are differences which may be acted upon by the lawmakers.  The equality at which the “equal protection” clause aims is not a disembodied equality.  The Fourteenth Amendment enjoins “the equal protection of the laws,” and laws are not abstract propositions.  They do not relate to abstract units A, B and C, but are expressions of policy arising out of specific difficulties, addressed to the attainment of specific ends by the use of specific remedies.