**Lead Opinion**
 Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289 .  And in Savin, Petitioner, supra, it was also held to include attempted bribes of a witness, one in the jury room and within a few feet of the court room and one in the hallway immediately adjoining the court room.  See Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517 .  The phrase “so near thereto as to obstruct the' administration of justice” likewise con *49 notes that the misbehavior must be in the vicinity of the court. Nelles & King, Contempt by Publication in the United States, 28 Col. L. Rev. 525, 530.  It is not sufficient that the misbehavior charged has some direct relation to the work of the court. “Near” in this context, juxtaposed to “presence,” suggests physical proximity not .relevancy.  In fact, if the words “so near thereto” are not read in the geographical sense, they come close, as the government admits, to being surplusage.  There may, of course, be many types of “misbehavior” which will “obstruct the administration of justice” but which may not be “in” or “near” to the “presence” of the court. Broad categories of such acts, however, were expressly recognized in § 2 of the Act of March 2, 1831 and subsequently in § 135 of the Criminal Code. It has been held that an act of misbehavior though covered by the latter provisions may also be a contempt if committed in the “presence” of the Court. Savin, Petitioner, supra. And see Sinclair v. United States, <citedDecision>279 U. S. 749</citedDecision> .  Yet in view of the history of those provisions, meticulous regard for those separate categories of offenses must be had, so that ■the instances where there is no right to jury trial will be narrowly restricted.  If “so near thereto” be given a causal meaning, then § 268 by the process of judicial construction will have regained much of the generality which Congress in 1831 emphatically intended to remove.  See Thomas, Problems oj Contempt oj Court (1934) c. VII.  If that phrase be not restricted to acts in the vicinity of the court but be allowed to embrace acts which have a “reasonable tendency” to “obstruct the administration of justice” (Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, supra, p. 421) then the conditions which Congress sought to alleviate in 1831 have largely been restored.  See Fox, The History oj Contempt oj Court (1927) c. IX.  The result will be- that the offenses which Congress designated as true crimes under § 2 of the Act of March 2, *50 1831 will be absorbed as contempts wherever they may take place.