**Combined Opinion**
 In addition to the receipt provided to be given for registration fee it shall' be the duty of such licensed person to give, to every applicant for employment from .whom other fee or fees shall be received, an •additional receipt, in which shall be stated the name of such appli.cant, the date and amount of such other fees; and to every applicant for help from whom other fee or .fees shall be received, an additional receipt, stating the name and address;of said applicant, the date and amount of such other fee or fees, and the kind of help to be provided.  All receipts shall have printed on the back thereof, in the English language, the name and address of the state secretary of labor and the chief deputy secretary of labor.. Every such licensed person shall give to every applicant for' employment,' a card or printed paper containing • the name of the applicant, the name and address of such employment agency, and the written name and address of the person to whom the applicant is sent for employment.  If an employee furnished fails to remain one week in a situation, through no. fault of the employer, then all fees paid or pledged, in excess of the registration fee aforesaid, shall be refunded to the employer upon demand.  If the employment furnished the applicant does not continue more than one week, through no fault of the employee, then all fees paid or pledged, in excess of the registration fee aforesaid, shall be refunded to the employee upon demand.” 2 .the court upheld those provisions of the statute under §3, Art. I of the Nebraska Constitution which provides that “No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process ¿flaw.” See Art. XV, §9.  3 The petition in mandamus was filed by respondent Western Reference & Bond Assn., Inc. The other respondents are Mills Teachers Agency, Thomas Employment Service, Co-Operative Reference Co., Marti Reference Co., Watts Reference Co., Comhusker Teachers Bureau^ Grace Boomer, and Davis School Service, who intervened in the action and challenged the constitutionality of the act.  Their petition of intervention stated that they, as well as the relator, confine their business “to' soliciting and securing positions for clerical, executive, technical and professional workers, and do not engage in the business of securing placements for common laborers, domestic servants or other classes of unskilled workers.” That seems to be conceded.  4 By stipulation filed in the state court it was agreed that the “sole and only issue for determination” was the constitutionality of the act “in so far as the same fixes or limits the fees or compensation of private employment agencies.” 5 But see New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, <citedDecision>285 U. S. 262</citedDecision> ; Old Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram-Distillers Corp., 299 U. S. 183, 192 ; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 316 .  6 Cf. Highland v. Russell Car & Snow Plow Co., 279 U. S. 253 .