**Dissenting Opinion**
 Other federal courts, since the adoption of the Judicial Code, have continued to enjoin relitigation of settled issues.  18 We think it may be accurately stated that for more than half a century there has been a widely accepted rule sup *153 porting the power of federal courts to prevent relitigation.  There are adequate precedents directly in point and others which recognize that the rule exists and is sound.  Some at one time involved a res. A number applied the same rule when a res was never in the hands of the court. Not a case nor a text book is cited to support the Court’s present position.  No articles in periodicals suggest the propriety or desirability of so positive a change, except a single query as to the logic of the relitigation development.  19 Though the Judicial Code received careful analysis before adoption, 20 no language was inserted to disavow the settled con-, struction of the reenacted section.  Dial v. Reynolds, <citedDecision>96 U. S. 340</citedDecision> , said by the Court to be a “relitigation” case, did not involve a decree.  In a federal suit to quiet title an injunction was sought to forbid a state action in ejectment.  It is in line with Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226 , but not even persuasive on the question of re-litigation or execution of decrees.  We turn now briefly to the original and auxiliary decrees in the two cases under consideration.  In the Toucey case, his suit in equity against the insurance company for restoration of an insurance policy and payments for benefits under it on the ground of the fraud of the company was decided against Toucey.  An assignee of Toucey’s in privity with him sought to relitigate the same issues in a state court. The federal court which entered the original decree enjoined on supplemental bill “retrial, reconsideration or readjudication” of the settled issues and the prosecution of the state action.  21 *154 In the Iowa-Wisconsin Bridge Co. case, a decree, invalidating a certain mortgage and bonds issued in consideration of claimed indebtedness after protracted litigation, was entered December 1, 1936, in a mortgage foreclosure suit brought in a federal court by the bondholders.