**Concurrence Opinion**
 The duty of a state to respect the judgments of a sister state arises only where such judgments meet the tests of justice and fair dealing that are embodied in the historic phrase, “due process of law.” But in this case all talk about due process is beside the mark.  If the actions of the Nevada court had been taken “without due process of law,” the divorces which it purported to decree would have been without legal sanction in every state, including Nevada.  There would be no occasion to consider the applicability of the Full Faith and Credit Clause.  It is precisely because the Nevada decrees do satisfy the requirements of the Due Process Clause and are binding in Nevada upon the absent spouses that we are called upon to decide whether these judgments, unassailable in the state which rendered them, are, despite the commands of the Full Faith and Credit Clause, null and void elsewhere.  North Carolina did not base its disregard of the Nevada decrees on the claim that they were a fraud and a sham, and no claim was made here on behalf of North Carolina *307 that the decrees were not valid in Nevada.  It is indisputable that the Nevada decrees here, like the Connecticut decree in the Haddock case, were valid and binding in the state where they were rendered.  Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, 569-70 ; Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190 ; Atherton v. Atherton, <citedDecision>181 U. S. 155</citedDecision> .  In denying constitutional sanction to such a valid judgment outside the state which rendered it, the Haddock decision made an arbitrary break with the past and created distinctions incompatible with the role of this Court in enforcing the Full Faith and Credit Clause.  Freed from the hopeless refinements introduced by that case, the question before us is simply whether the Nevada decrees were rendered under circumstances that would make them binding against the absent spouses in the state where they were rendered.  North Carolina did not challenge the power of Nevada to declare the marital status of persons found to be Nevada residents.  North Carolina chose instead to disrespect the consequences of Nevada’s exertion of such power.  It is therefore no more rhetorical to say that Nevada is seeking to impose its policy upon North Carolina than it is to say that North Carolina is seeking to impose its policy upon Nevada.  For all but a very small fraction of the community the niceties of resolving such conflicts among the laws of the states are, in all likelihood, matters of complete indifference.