**Combined Opinion**
 To attribute that idea to it would be to give the Act a construction which would in practical effect encourage the assumption by the United States of the obligations of private persons.  3 Moreover, if petitioner had a cause of action against respondent, it is difficult to see how she could be deprived of it by reason of a contract between respondent and the Commission.  Immunity from suit on a cause of action which the law creates cannot be so readily obtained.  Cf. Guaranty Trust & S. D. Co. v. Green Cove R. Co., 139 U. S. 137, 143 .  The rights of principal and agent inter se are not the measure of the rights of third persons against either of them for their torts.  It is, of course, true that government contractors obtain certain immunity in connection with work which they do pursuant to their contractual undertaking with the United States.  Yearsley v. Ross Construction Co., <citedDecision>309 U. S. 18</citedDecision> , was a recent example.  In that case the contractor in building dikes in the Missouri River for the United States had washed away a part of the plaintiff’s land.  We held that the contractor was not liable, saying (pp. 20-21) “that if this authority to carry out the project was validly conferred, that is, if what was done was within the constitutional power of Congress, there is no liability on the part of the contractor for executing its will.” But here the situation is quite different.  The question is not whether the Commission had authority to delegate to respondent responsibilities for managing and operating the vessel as its agent.  It is whether respondent can escape liability for a negligent exercise of that delegated power if we assume *584 that by contract it will be exonerated or indemnified for any damages it must pay.  As stated in Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. Emergency Fleet Corp., supra, pp. 566-567, “the general rule is that any person within the jurisdiction always is amenable to the law. If he is sued for conduct harmful to the plaintiff his only shield is a constitutional rule of law that exonerates him.” Furthermore, if the United States were to become the real party in interest by reason of a contract for exoneration or indemnity, a basic alteration in that concept (Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 387 ) would be made, not pursuant to a Congressional policy 4 but by reason of concessions made by contracting officers of the government.  Such a change would be detrimental to the interests of private claimants, as we have said, since it would subtract from the legal remedies which the law has afforded them.