**Lead Opinion**
 The validity of the taxes on the transfer of the land presents a somewhat different problem.  Some of these lands are exempt from direct taxation by virtue of explicit congressional command.  The Act of May 10, 1928, 45 Stat. 495 , for example, provides that Indians of a class which includes the three deceased should select up to 160 acres of his allotted, inherited or devised restricted lands, which “shall remain exempt from taxation while the title remains in the Indian designated ... or in any full-blood Indian heir or devisee,” while all other restricted lands are made subject to taxation by Oklahoma.  The State argues that congressional exemption of the land *611 from direct state taxation does not exempt the land from an estate tax, because of the principles announced in United States Trust Co. v. Helvering, supra. A majority of the Court concludes that this principle does not apply to Indian lands specifically exempted from direct taxation.  We therefore hold that the transfer of those lands which Congress has exempted from direct taxation by the State are also exempted from estate taxes.  To summarize: In No. 623, the transfer of the cash and securities is taxable, the transfer of the homestead and other allotted land, exempted under the Act of May 10, 1928, is not.  The 43 acres purchased for the intestate from her restricted funds was taxable at the time of her death, Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., <citedDecision>276 U. S. 575</citedDecision> , and hence is subject to the estate tax. In No. 624, the transfer of the cash and securities and the personal property is taxable.  The deceased died before the Act of May 10,1928, took effect, but her 240-acre holding was specifically exempt from direct taxation at the time of her death under § 19 of the Act of April 26, 1906, and the transfer of lands is therefore not taxable.  In No. 625, the same result as in No. 623 follows for the restricted lands which were appropriately selected for exemption under the Act of May 10, 1928, and for the personal property, cash, and securities.  The judgment and the insurance policy are to be treated as in a class with the personal property, cash, and securities.  It is conceded that the 160 acres of inherited property held by the deceased was taxable at the time of his death because in excess of the exemption permitted by the 1928 Act, and this land is, therefore, subject to the estate tax. While the status of the deceased’s four-fifths interest in a 40-acre tract is not clear from the record, no showing has been made that it is not taxable.  *612 The Government is entitled to recovery of the estate tax paid on the transfer of lands exempt from direct taxation, and to no more.  The judgment below is vacated and the cause is remanded to the district court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.