**Lead Opinion**
 The same principle was carried into the tax field in The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737 , and for the same reasons.  That case also emphasized that the Indians could “not look to Kansas for protection,” 759, and that Kansas was not “obliged to confer any rights on them,” 758.  The tax exemption, said the Court, must last until the Indians were “clothed with the rights and bound to all the duties of citizens,” 756.  A similar result was reached in The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761 , decided the same day, where the State sought to raise money by taxes to build roads in Indian reservations and where existing treaties forbade the State’s building such roads.  Later, for a *603 period of time, Indian lands held in trust by the United States were found to be constitutionally tax-exempt on the theory that they were federal instrumentalities, i.  e., that the lands were held by the United States for the Indians, and were therefore non-taxable.  United States v. Rickert, <citedDecision>188 U. S. 432</citedDecision> .  In time, this constitutional concept was expanded to grant tax exemption to the income derived from Indian lands, whether tribally or individually owned, even when the privilege of exploitation had been granted to non-Indian lessees.  4 The instrumentality concept ultimately resulted in a decision exempting Indian estates from taxation.  Childers v. Beaver, supra. None of these cases held, nor has this Court ever decided, that congressional restriction of an Indian’s income carried an implication of estate tax exemption.  The underlying principles on which these decisions are based do not fit the situation of the Oklahoma Indians.  Although there are remnants of the form of tribal sovereignty, these Indians have no effective tribal autonomy as in Worcester v. Georgia, supra; and, unlike the Indians involved in The Kansas Indians case, supra, they are actually citizens of the State with little to distinguish them from all other citizens except for their limited property restrictions and their tax exemptions.  5 Their lands are held in fee, not in trust, as in the <citedDecision>Rickert</citedDecision> case, and the doctrine of constitutional immunity from taxation for the income of their holdings on the federal instrumentality theory has been renounced, Helvering v. Mountain Pro *604 ducers Corp., 303 U. S. 376 .  Childers v. Beaver, supra, was in effect overruled by the Mountain Producers decision.  The immunity formerly said to rest on constitutional implication cannot now be resurrected in the form of statutory implication.  The cash and securities of which these estates are almost entirely composed were restricted by the Act of January 27,1933.  6 Unless the tax immunity is granted by the restriction clause itself, there is not a word in the Act which even remotely suggests that Congress meant to exempt Indians’ cash and securities from Oklahoma’s estate taxes.  We conclude that this Act does not exempt the restricted property from taxation for two reasons: (1) the legislative history of the Act refutes the contention that an exemption was intended; and (2) application of the normal rule against tax exemption by statutory implication prevents our reading such an implication into the Act.  The 1933 Act was intended to serve two purposes relevant to this case. One was to continue the restrictions on Indian property for the purpose of protecting the Indians from loss to individuals who might take advantage of them; and the other was to preserve the status of certain *605 Indian land as non-taxable until 1956.