**Dissenting Opinion**
 That was the basis of decision in Choctaw, O. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292 ; Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522 ; Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609 ; Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503 ; Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549 ; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501 .  In all those cases a non-Indian lessee of restricted Indian lands was held immune from state taxation of various kinds because, and only because, the lands themselves and the leasing of them were held to be immune from taxation, and this in turn because they were the lands of Indians held in Government tutelage, who were permitted to lease the lands only with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.  This immunity for lessees was withdrawn by Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376 , which overruled Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra. Cf. the dissenting opinions in Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393 .  In neither the Coronado case nor in the Mountain Producers case was there any contention that the land in the hands of the lessors was subject to taxation.  That was recognized and accepted as correct.  The point was that even though the land was tax immune in the hands of the lessor, the lessor’s immunity did not extend to the lessee who had no personal immunity and who acquired the land for his own purposes and made a profit from it.  In other words, the withdrawal of immunity from a non-Indian lessee of restricted Indian land rests upon the remoteness of the effect of that taxation upon such Indian property, cf. Graves v. New York ex rel. O’Keefe, <citedDecision>306 U. S. 466</citedDecision> , not upon a notion that Congress did not intend by imposing restrictions to prohibit state taxation of the interest of Indians in their restricted property, nor upon the supposition that Congress lacks power to do so. Congress plainly has power to implement its Indian policy by forbidding state taxation to burden the interest of an Indian in his property.  Cf. Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 *616 U. S. 575 ; Board of Commissioners v. Seber, 318 U. S. 705 .  It exercises that power simply by imposing the restrictions.  That Congress has considered the restriction of Indian property against alienation and encumbrance as carrying with it immunity from state taxation for the period of the restriction is clear not only from statements of Congress itself to that effect, 5 but also from the long history of such restrictions and the purpose sought to be achieved, the protection of a dependent people from their own improvidence and the exploitation of others.  Congress early established the complete and exclusive control of the federal government over the purchase and disposition of Indian lands, both tribal and individual.  6 The protection afforded by those and subsequent restrictive acts and treaties extended to trespasses, transfers, tax sales, tax liens, and other attempted interferences by the state governments with federal control over Indian lands.  See Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515 ; The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737; The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761 .