**Lead Opinion**
 The use of an emblem or flag to symbolize some system, idea, institution, or personality, is a short cut from mind to mind.  Causes and nations, political parties, lodges and ecclesiastical groups seek to knit the loyalty of their followings to a flag or banner, a color or design.  The State announces rank, function, and authority through crowns and maces, uniforms and black robes; the church speaks through the Cross, the Crucifix, the altar and shrine, and clerical raiment.  Symbols of State often convey political ideas just as religious symbols come to convey theological ones.  Associated with many of these symbols are appropriate gestures of acceptance or respect: a salute, a bowed or bared head, a bended knee. A person gets from a *633 symbol the meaning he puts into it, and what is one man’s comfort and inspiration is another’s jest and scorn.  Over a decade ago Chief Justice Hughes led this Court in holding that the display of a red flag as a symbol of opposition by peaceful and legal means to organized government was protected by the free speech guaranties of the Constitution.  Stromberg v. California, <citedDecision>283 U. S. 359</citedDecision> .  Here it is the State that employs a flag as a symbol of adherence to government as presently organized.  It requires the individual to communicate by word and sign his acceptance of the political ideas it thus bespeaks.  Objection to this form of communication when coerced is an old one, well known to the framers of the Bill of Rights.  13 It is also to be noted that the compulsory flag salute and pledge requires affirmation of a belief and an attitude of mind.  It is not clear whether the regulation contemplates that pupils forego any contrary convictions of their own and become unwilling converts to the prescribed ceremony or whether it will be acceptable if they simulate assent by words without belief and by a gesture barren of meaning.  It is now a commonplace that censorship or suppression of expression of opinion is tolerated by our Constitution only when the expression presents a clear and presént danger of action of a kind the State is empowered to prevent and punish.