**Combined Opinion**
 [19] We think the action of the local authorities in compelling the flag salute and pledge transcends constitutional limitations on their power and invades the sphere of intellect and spirit which it is the purpose of the First Amendment to our Constitution to reserve from all official control.  The decision of this Court in Minersville School District v. Gobitis and the holdings of those few per curiam decisions which preceded and foreshadowed it are overruled, and the judgment enjoining enforcement of the West Virginia Regulation is Affirmed.  MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE REED adhere to the views expressed by the Court in Minersville School *643 District v. Gobitis, 310 U.S. 586 , and are of the opinion that the judgment below should be reversed.  MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring: We are substantially in agreement with the opinion just read, but since we originally joined with the Court in the Gobitis case, it is appropriate that we make a brief statement of reasons for our change of view.  Reluctance to make the Federal Constitution a rigid bar against state regulation of conduct thought inimical to the public welfare was the controlling influence which moved us to consent to the Gobitis decision.  Long reflection convinced us that although the principle is sound, its application in the particular case was wrong.  Jones v. Opelika, <citedDecision>316 U.S. 584, 623</citedDecision> .  We believe that the statute before us fails to accord full scope to the freedom of religion secured to the appellees by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.  The statute requires the appellees to participate in a ceremony aimed at inculcating respect for the flag and for this country.  The Jehovah's Witnesses, without any desire to show disrespect for either the flag or the country, interpret the Bible as commanding, at the risk of God's displeasure, that they not go through the form of a pledge of allegiance to any flag.  The devoutness of their belief is evidenced by their willingness to suffer persecution and punishment, rather than make the pledge.  No well-ordered society can leave to the individuals an absolute right to make final decisions, unassailable by the State, as to everything they will or will not do.  The First Amendment does not go so far.