**Lead Opinion**
 Mercoid in its answer denied contributory infringement and alleged that Mid-Continent should be barred from relief because it was seeking to extend the grant of the patent to unpatented devices.  The alleged improper use of the patent was also the basis of a counterclaim filed by Mercoid in which it was averred that Mid-Continent and its exclusive licensee under the patent, respondent Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., who was brought in as a party plaintiff, had conspired to expand the monopoly of the patent in violation of the antitrust laws.  Mercoid asked not only for declaratory relief but for an accounting and treble damages as well.  The District Court found that Mercoid did not contribute to the infringement of the Cross patent; that respondents had conspired to establish a monopoly in an unpatented appliance beyond the scope of the patent and in violation of the anti-trust laws; and that respondents were in no position to maintain the suit because of that conspiracy.  Mercoid was granted an injunction but its prayer for damages was denied.  The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the District Court in disallowing dam *663 ages under the counterclaim.  In all other respects it reversed that judgment, holding that Mercoid was guilty of contributory infringement under the rule of Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2), 213 U. S. 325 , and that Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., <citedDecision>283 U. S. 27</citedDecision> and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458 , did not bar recovery as the District Court had thought.  133 F. 2d 803 .  The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the public importance of the questions presented.  The controversy centers around the license agreement between Mid-Continent and Minneapolis-Honeywell.  By that agreement Minneapolis-Honeywell received an exclusive license to make, use, sell, and to sub-license others to make, use, and sell the Cross combination patent No. 1,758,146.  The royalty payments under the license, however, were to be based only upon sales of the combustion stoker switch which was an element of the combination patent embodied in the patented article but which was itself unpatented.  The license agreement was construed by the Circuit Court of Appeals to mean that the royalty payments were to be made only on switches used for fire maintenance purposes under the Cross patent.