**Lead Opinion**
 But the Circuit Court of Appeals found that Mercoid manufactured and sold combustion stoker switches for use in the Cross combination patent.  And we may assume that Mercoid did not act innocently.  Indeed the Circuit Court of Appeals said that it could find no use for the accused devices other than in the Cross combination patent.  And it assumed, as was held in Smith v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 106 F. 2d 622 , that the Cross patent was valid.  But though we assume the validity of the patent and accept fully the findings of the Circuit Court of Appeals, we think the judgment below should be reversed.  Ever since Henry v. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1 , was overruled by Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 602 , this Court has consistently held that the owner of a patent may not employ it to secure a limited monopoly of an unpatented material used in applying the invention.  Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., supra; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., supra; Morton Salt *665 Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488 ; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, <citedDecision>314 U. S. 495</citedDecision> .  In those cases both direct and contributory infringement suits were disallowed on a showing that the owner of the patent was using it “as the effective means of restraining competition with its sale of an unpatented article.” Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., supra, p. 490.  The Court has repeatedly held that to allow such suits would be to extend the aid of a court of equity in expanding the patent beyond the legitimate scope of its monopoly.  It is true that those cases involved the use of the patent for a machine or process to secure a partial monopoly in supplies consumed in its operation or unpatented materials employed in it.  But we can see no difference in principle where the unpatented material or device is itself an integral part of the structure embodying the patent.  The grant of a patent is the grant of a special privilege “to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.” Const., Art. I, § 8.  It carries, of course, a right to be free from competition in the practice of the invention.