**Dissenting Opinion**
 The preparation of this measure was not only delegated to a Congressional Committee, but was considered by a committee of Cabinet members, one of whom was the Attorney General.  Both were aware of our decisions in the Schwimmer and related cases and that no other question pertinent to the naturalization laws had been as persistently and continuously before Congress in the ten years following the decision in the Schwimmer case. The modifications in the provisions of Paragraphs “Third” and “Fourth” of § 4 of the 1906 Act show conclusively the careful attention which was given to them.  *76 In the face of this legislative history the "failure of Congress to alter the Act after it had been judicially construed, and the enactment by Congress of legislation which implicitly recognizes the judicial construction as effective, is persuasive of legislative recognition that the judicial construction is the correct one.  This is the more so where, as here, the application of the statute .  .  .  has brought forth sharply conflicting views both on the Court and in Congress, and where after the matter has been fully brought to the attention of the public and the Congress, the latter has not seen fit to change the statute.” Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, <citedDecision>310 U. S. 469, 488-9</citedDecision> .  And see to like effect United States v. Ryan, 284 U. S. 167 -175; United States v. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co., 298 U. S. 492, 500 ; Missouri v. Ross, 299 U. S. 72, 75 ; cf. Helvering v. Winmill, 305 U. S. 79, 82, 83 .  It is the responsibility of Congress, in reenacting a statute, to make known its purpose in a controversial matter of interpretation of its former language, at least when the matter has, for over a decade, been persistently brought to its attention.  In the light of this legislative history, it is abundantly clear that Congress has performed that duty.  In any case it is not lightly to be implied that Congress has failed to perform it and has delegated to this Court the responsibility of giving new content to language deliberately readopted after this Court has construed it.  For us to make such an assumption is to discourage, if not to deny, legislative responsibility.  By thus adopting and confirming this Court’s construction of what Congress had enacted in the Naturalization Act of 1906 Congress gave that construction the same legal significance as though it had written the very words into the Act of 1940.