**Combined Opinion**
 This Court there held, over the dissents of Justices McKenna and Holmes, that the railroad, because of the due process clause of the' Fifth Amendment, had a constitutional right to dis *535 criminate against union members and could therefore do so through use of yellow dog contracts.  The chief reliance for this holding was Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45 , which had invalidated a New York law prescribing maximum hours for work in bakeries.  This Court had found support for its Lochner holding in what had been said in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578 , a case on which appellants here strongly rely.  There were strong dissents in the Adair and Lochner cases. In 1914 this Court reaffirmed the principles of the Adair case in Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1 , again over strong dissents, and held that a Kansas statute outlawing yellow dog contracts denied employers and employees a liberty to fix terms of employment.  For this reason the law was held invalid under the due process clause.  The Allgeyer-Lochner-Adair-Coppage constitutional doctrine was for some years followed by this Court. It was used to strike down laws fixing minimum wages and maximum hours in employment, laws fixing prices, and laws regulating business activities.  See cases cited in Olsen v. Nebraska, <citedDecision>313 U. S. 236, 244-246</citedDecision> , and Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U. S. 53, 66-67 .  And the same constitutional philosophy was faithfully adhered to in Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590 , a case strongly pressed upon us by appellants.  In Adams v. Tanner , this Court with four justices dissenting struck down a state law absolutely prohibiting maintenance of private employment agencies.  The majority found that such businesses were highly beneficial to the public and upon this conclusion held that the state was without power to proscribe them.  Our holding and opinion in <citedDecision>Olsen</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Nebraska, supra,</citedDecision> clearly, undermined Adams v. Tanner .  Appellants also rely heavily on certain language used in this Court’s opinion in Wolff Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522 .  In that case the *536 Court invalidated a state law which in part provided a method for a state agency to fix wages and hours.  6 See Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 267 U. S. 552, 565 .  In invalidating this part of the state act, this Court construed the due process clause as forbidding legislation to fix hours and wages, or to fix prices of products.  The Court also relied on a distinction between businesses according to whether they were or were not “clothed with a public interest.” This latter distinction was rejected in Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502 .  That the due process clause does not ban legislative power to fix prices, wages and hours as was assumed in the Wolff case, was settled as to price fixing in the Nebbia and <citedDecision>Olsen</citedDecision> cases. That wages and hours can be fixed by law is no longer doubted since West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, 300 U. S. 379 ; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 125 ; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 187 .  This Court beginning at least as early as 1934, when the Nebbia case was decided, has steadily rejected the due process philosophy enunciated in the Adair-Coppage line of cases. In doing so it has consciously returned closer and closer to the earlier constitutional principle that states have power to legislate against what are found to be injurious practices in their internal commercial and business affairs, so long as their laws do not run afoul of some specific federal constitutional prohibition, or of some valid federal law. See Nebbia v. New York, supra at 523-524, and West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, supra at 392-395 , and cases cited.  Under this constitutional doctrine the due process clause is no longer to be so broadly construed that the Congress and state legislatures are put in *537 a strait jacket when they attempt to suppress business and industrial conditions which they regard as offensive to the public welfare.  Appellants now ask us to return, at least in part, to the due process philosophy that has been deliberately discarded.  Claiming that the Federal Constitution itself affords protection for union members against discrimination, they nevertheless assert that the same Constitution forbids a state from providing the same protection for non-union members.  Just as we have held that the due process clause erects no obstacle to block legislative protection of union members, we now hold that legislative protection can be afforded non-union workers.  Affirmed.