**Concurrence Opinion**
 If “sacrilegious” bans more than the physical abuse of sacred persons, places, or things, if it permits censorship of religious opinions, which is the effect of the holding below, the term will include what may be found to be “blasphemous.” England’s experience with that treacherous word should give us pause, apart from our *529 requirements for the separation of Church and State.  The crime of blasphemy in Seventeenth Century England was the crime of dissenting from whatever was the current religious dogma.  51 King James I’s “Book of Sports” was first required reading in the churches; later all copies were consigned to the flames.  To attack the mass was once blasphemous; to perform it became so. At different times during that century, with the shifts in the attitude of government towards particular religious views, persons who doubted the doctrine of the Trinity (e. g., Unitarians, Universalists, etc.) or the divinity of Christ, observed the Sabbath on Saturday, denied the possibility of witchcraft, repudiated child baptism or urged methods of baptism other than sprinkling, were charged as blasphemers, or their books were burned or banned as blasphemous.  Blasphemy was the chameleon phrase which meant the criticism of whatever the ruling authority of the moment established as orthodox religious doctrine.  52 While it is true that blasphemy prosecutions *530 have continued in England — although in lessening numbers — into the present century, 53 the existence there of an established church gives more definite contours to the crime in England than the term “sacrilegious” can possibly have in this country.  Moreover, the scope of the English common-law crime of blasphemy has been considerably limited by the declaration that “if the decencies of controversy are observed, even the fundamentals of religion may be attacked,” 54 a limitation which the New York court has not put upon the Board of Regents’ power to declare a motion picture “sacrilegious.” In Cantwell v. Connecticut, <citedDecision>310 U. S. 296, 310</citedDecision> , Mr. Justice Roberts, speaking for the whole Court, said: “In the realm of religious faith, and in that of political -belief, sharp differences arise.  In both fields the tenets of one man may seem the rankest error to his neighbor.” Conduct and beliefs dear to one may seem the rankest “sacrilege” to another.  A few examples suffice to show the difficulties facing a conscientious censor or motion picture producer or distributor in determining what the New York statute condemns as sacrilegious.  A motion picture portraying Christ as divine — for example, a movie showing medieval Church art — -would offend the religious opinions of the members of several Protestant denominations who do not believe in the Trinity, as well as those of a non-Christian faith.  Conversely, one showing Christ as merely an ethical teacher could not but offend millions of Christians of many denominations.  Which is “sacrilegious”?  The doctrine of transubstantiation, and the veneration of relics or particular stone and wood embodiments of saints or divinity, both sacred to *531 Catholics, are offensive to a great many Protestants, and therefore for them sacrilegious in the view of the New York court. Is a picture treating either subject, whether sympathetically, unsympathetically, or neutrally, “sacrilegious”?