**Concurrence Opinion**
 “There was indeed 'blasphemy’ in the picture— but it was the blasphemy of the villagers, who stopped at nothing, not even the mock singing of a *515 hymn to the Virgin, in their brutal badgering of the tragic woman.  The scathing indictment of their evil behavior, implicit in the film, was seemingly overlooked by its critics.” 21 William P. Clancy, a teacher at the University of Notre Dame, wrote in The Commonweal, the well-known Catholic weekly, that “the film is not obviously blasphemous or obscene, either in its intention or execution.” 22 The Commonweal itself questioned the wisdom of transforming Church dogma which Catholics may obey as “a free act” into state-enforced censorship for all. 23 Allen Tate, the well-known Catholic poet and critic, wrote: “The picture seems to me to be superior in acting and photography but inferior dramatically.  ... In the long run what Cardinal Spellman will have succeeded in doing is insulting the intelligence and faith of American Catholics with the assumption that a second-rate motion picture could in any way undermine their morals or shake their faith.” 24 At the time “The Miracle” was filmed, all the persons having significant positions in the production — producer, director, and cast — were Catholics.  Roberto Rossellini, who had Vatican approval in 1949 for filming a life of St. Francis, using in the cast members of the Franciscan *516 Order, cabled Cardinal Spellman protesting against boycott of “The Miracle”: “In The Miracle men are still without pity because they still have not come back to God, but God is already present in the faith, however confused, of that poor, persecuted woman; and since God is wherever a human being suffers and is misunderstood, The Miracle occurs when at the birth of the child the poor, demented woman regains sanity in her maternal love.” 25 In view of the controversy thus aroused by the picture, the Chairman of the Board of Regents appointed a committee of three Board members to review the action of the Motion Picture Division in granting the two licenses.  After viewing the picture on Jan. 15, 1951, the committee declared it “sacrilegious.” The Board four days later issued an order to the licensees to show cause why the licenses should not be cancelled in that the picture was “sacrilegious.” The Board of Regents rescinded the licenses on Feb. 16, 1951, saying that the “mockery or profaning of these beliefs that are sacred to any portion of our citizenship is abhorrent to the laws of this great State.” On review the Appellate Division upheld the Board of Regents, holding that the banning of any motion picture “that may fairly be deemed sacrilegious to the adherents of any religious group ... is directly related to public peace and order” and is not a denial of religious freedom, and that there was “substantial evidence upon which the Regents could act.” 278 App. Div. 253, 257, 258, 260 , 104 N. Y. S. 2d 740, 743, 744-745, 747.  The New York Court of Appeals, with one judge concurring in a separate opinion and two others dissenting, *517 affirmed the order of the Appellate Division.  <citedDecision>303 N. Y. 242</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>101 N. E. 2d 665</citedDecision> .  After concluding that the Board of Regents acted within its authority and that its determination was not “one that no reasonable mind could reach,” <citedDecision>id., at 250-255, 256-257</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>101 N. E. 2d 665, 667-671</citedDecision> , the majority held, first, that “sacrilegious” was an adequately definite standard, quoting a definition from Funk & Wagnalls’ Dictionary and referring to opinions in this Court that in passing used the term “profane,” which the New York court said was a synonym of “sacrilegious” ; second, that the State’s assurance “that no religion .  .  .  shall be treated with contempt, mockery, scorn and ridicule ... by those engaged in selling entertainment by way of motion pictures” does not violate the religious guarantee of the First Amendment; and third, that motion pictures are not entitled to the immunities from regulation enjoyed by the press, in view of the decision in Mutual Film Corp. v. Ohio Industrial Comm’n, 236 U. S. 230 .  Id., at 255-256, 258-260, 260-262, 101 N. E. 2d 670 -674.  The two dissenting judges, after dealing with a matter of local law not reviewable here, found that the standard “sacrilegious” is unconstitutionally vague, and, finally, that the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech applied equally to motion pictures and prevented this censorship.  <citedDecision>303 N. Y. 242, 264</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>101 N. E. 2d 665, 675</citedDecision> .  Both State courts, as did this Court, viewed “The Miracle.” '"’"Arguments by the parties and in briefs amici invite us to pursue to their farthest reach the problems in which this case is involved.  Positions are advanced so absolute and abstract that in any event they could not properly determine this controversy.  See Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 341, 346-348 .  We are asked to decide this case by choosing between two mutually exclusive alternatives: that motion pictures may be subjected to unrestricted censorship, or that they *518 must be allowed to be shown under any circumstances.  But only the tyranny of absolutes would rely on such alternatives to meet the problems generated by the need to accommodate the diverse interests affected by the motion pictures in compact modern communities.  It would startle Madison and Jefferson and George Mason, could they adjust themselves to our day, to be told that the freedom of speech which they espoused in the Bill of Rights authorizes a showing of “The Miracle” from windows facing St. Patrick’s Cathedral in the forenoon of Easter Sunday, 26 just as it would startle them to be told that any picture, whatever its theme and its expression, could be barred from being commercially exhibited.