**Lead Opinion**
 These stops were made at Cincinnati; but none of them involved loading or unloading cargo.  The Tax Commissioner of Ohio, acting under §§ 5325 and 5328 of the Ohio General Code, levied an ad valorem personal propérty tax on all of these vessels.  The Board of Tax Appeals affirmed (with an exception not material here), and the Supreme Court of Ohio sustained the Board, 155 Ohio St. 61 , 98 N. E. 2d 8 , over the objection that the tax violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  The case is here bn appeal.  28 U. S. C. § 1257 (2).  Under the earlier view governing the taxability of vessels moving in the inland waters (St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423 ; Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409 ; cf. Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299 ), Ohio, the state of the domicile, would have a strong claim to the whole of the tax that has been levied.  But the rationale of those cases was rejected in Ott v. Mississippi Barge Line Co., 336 U. S. 169 , where we held that vessels moving in interstate operations along the inland waters were taxable by the same standards as those which Pullman’s Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, <citedDecision>141 U. S. 18</citedDecision> , first applied to railroad cars in interstate commerce.  The formula approved was one which fairly apportioned the tax to the commerce carried on within the state.  In that way we *384 placed inland water transportation on the same constitutional footing as other interstate enterprises.  The Ott caáfe involved a tax by Louisiana on vessels of a foreign corporation operating in Louisiana waters.  Louisiana sought to tax only that portion of the value of the vessels represented by the ratio between the total number of miles in Louisiana and the total number of miles in the entire operation.  The present case is sought to be distinguished on the.ground that Ohio is the domiciliary state and therefore may tax the whole value even though the boats and barges operate outside Ohio.  New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584 , sustained a tax by the domiciliary state on all the rolling stock.of a railroad.