**Lead Opinion**
 The judgment was approved by the Army Board of Review, 10 CMR 350 , 13 CMR 307 , and the Court of Military Appeals, 5 USCMA 314 .  Mrs. Smith was then confined in a federal penitentiary in West Virginia.  Her father, respondent here, filed a petition for habeas corpus in a District Court for West Virginia.  The petition charged that the court-martial was without jurisdiction because Article 2 (11) of the UCMJ was unconstitutional insofar as it authorized the trial of civilian dependents accom *5 panying servicemen overseas.  The District Court refused to issue the writ, 137 F. Supp. 806 , and while an appeal was pending in the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit we granted certiorari at the request of the Government, 350 U. S. 986 .  The two cases were consolidated and argued last Term and a majority of the Court, with three Justices dissenting and one reserving opinion, held that military trial of Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Covert for their alleged offenses was constitutional.  <citedDecision>351 U. S. 470, 487</citedDecision> .  The majority held that the provisions of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments which require that crimes be tried by a jury after indictment by a grand jury did not protect an American citizen when he was tried by the American Government in foreign lands for offenses committed there and that Congress could provide for the trial of such offenses in any manner it saw fit so long as the procedures established were reasonable and consonant with due process.  The opinion then went on to express the view that military trials, as now practiced, were not unreasonable or arbitrary when applied to dependents accompanying members of the armed forces overseas.  In reaching their conclusion the majority found it unnecessary to consider the power of Congress “To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces” under Article I of the Constitution.  Subsequently, the Court granted a petition for rehearing, 352 U. S. 901 .  Now, after further argument and consideration, we conclude that the previous decisions cannot be permitted to stand.  We hold that Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Covert could not constitutionally be tried by military authorities.