**Concurrence Opinion**
*65 Mr. Justice Harlan, concurring in the result.  I concur in the result, on the narrow ground that where the offense is capital, Article 2 (ll) 1 cannot constitutionally be applied to the trial of civilian dependents of members of the armed forces overseas in times of peace.  Since I am the only one among today’s majority who joined in the Court’s opinions of June 11, 1956, which sustained the court-martial jurisdiction in these cases, <citedDecision>351 U. S. 470, 487</citedDecision> , I think it appropriate to state the reasons which led to my voting, first, to rehear these cases, 352 U. S. 901 , and, now, to strike down that jurisdiction.  I.  The petitions for rehearing which were filed last summer afforded an opportunity for a greater degree of reflection upon the difficult issues involved in these cases than, at least for me, was possible in the short interval between the argument and decision of the cases in the closing days of last Term. 2 As a result I became satisfied that this court-martial jurisdiction could in any event not be sustained upon the reasoning of our prior opinion.  In essence, that reasoning was this: (1) Under In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453 , and the Insular Cases, 3 the requirement of a trial by an Article III court and the other specific safeguards of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments are not applicable to the trial of American citizens outside the United States; (2) there is thus no express constitutional prohibition against the use of courts- *66 martial for such trials abroad; (3) the choice of a court-martial in cases such as these was “reasonable,” because of these women’s connection with the military, and therefore satisfied due process; (4) the court-martial jurisdiction was thus constitutional.  I have since concluded that this analysis was not sound, for two reasons: (1) The underlying premise of the prior opinion, it seems to me, is that under the Constitution the mere absence of a prohibition against an asserted power, plus the abstract reasonableness of its use, is enough to establish the existence of the power.  I think this is erroneous.  The powers of Congress, unlike those of the English Parliament, are constitutionally circumscribed.