**Concurrence Opinion**
 .  Shall the Union be constituted the guardian of the common safety?  Are fleets and armies and revenues necessary to this purpose?  The government of the Union must be empowered to pass all laws, and to make all regulations which have relation to them.  ... “Every view we may take of the subject, as candid inquirers after truth, will serve to convince us, that it is both unwise and dangerous to deny the federal government an unconfined authority, as to all those objects which are intrusted to its management.  ... A government, the constitution of .which renders it unfit to be trusted with all the powers which a free people ought to delegate to any government, would be an unsafe and improper depositary of the national interests.  Wherever these can with propriety be confided, the coincident powers may safely accompany them.” No less an authority than Chief Justice Marshall, in McCulloch v. Maryland, <citedDecision>4 Wheat. 316</citedDecision> , has taught us that the Necessary and Proper Clause is to be read with all the powers of Congress, so that “where the law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to effect any of the objects entrusted to the government, to undertake here to inquire into the degree of its necessity, would be to pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department, and to tread on legislative ground.” <citedDecision>Id., at 423</citedDecision> .  *70 I think it no answer to say, as my brother Black does, that “having run up against the steadfast bulwark of the Bill of Rights, the Necessary and Proper Clause cannot extend the scope of [Art. I] Clause 14.” Eor that simply begs the question as to whether there is such a collision, an issue to which I address myself below.  For analytical purposes, I think it useful to break down the issue before us into two questions: First, is there a rational connection between the trial of these army wives by court-martial and the power of Congress to make rules for the governance of the land and naval forces; in other words, is there any initial power here at all?  Second, if there is such a rational connection, to what extent does this statute, though reasonably calculated to subserve an enumerated power, collide with other express limitations on congressional power; in other words, can this statute, however appropriate to the Article I power looked at in isolation, survive against the requirements of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments?  I recognize that these two questions are ultimately one and the same, since the scope of the Article I power is not separable from the limitations imposed by Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.  Nevertheless I think it will make for clarity of analysis to consider them separately.  A. I assume, for the moment, therefore, that we may disregard other limiting provisions of the Constitution, and examine the Article I power in isolation.