**Concurrence In Part Opinion**
 Since any consideration which may have passed is not legally recoverable, its recipient has realized a taxable gain, an “accession to income,” as clearly as if his “indebtedness” had been discharged by a full, release or by the running of a Statute of Limitations.  As we have already shown at length, quite the opposite is true when an embezzlement occurs; for then the victim acquires an immediately ripe and enforceable claim to repayment, and the embezzler assumes a legal debt equal to his acquisition.  To reach the result that it does today, The Chief Justice’s opinion constructs the following theory for defining taxable income: “When a taxpayer acquires earnings, lawfully or unlawfully, without the consensual recognition, *256 express or implied, of an obligation to repay and without restriction as to their disposition, 'he has received income which he is required to return, even though it may still be claimed that he is not entitled to retain the money, and even though he may still be adjudged liable to restore its equivalent.’ North American Oil v. Burnet, supra, at p. 424.  In such case, the taxpayer has actual command over the property taxed — the actual benefit for which the tax is paid,’ Corliss v. Bowers, supra. This standard brings wrongful appropriations within the broad sweep of 'gross income’; it excludes loans.  When a law-abiding taxpayer mistakenly receives income in one year, which receipt is assailed and found to be invalid in a subsequent year, the taxpayer must nonetheless report the amount as 'gross income’ in the year received.  United States v. Lewis, supra; Healy v. Commissioner, supra.” This novel formula finds no support in our prior decisions, least of all in those which are cited.  Corliss v. Bowers, <citedDecision>281 U. S. 376</citedDecision> , involved nothing more than an inter vivos trust created by the taxpayer to pay the income to his wife.  Since he had reserved the power to alter or abolish the trust at will, its income was taxable to him under the express provisions of § 219 (g), (h) of the Revenue Act of 1924.  North American Oil v. Burnet, 286.  U. S. 417, is the case which introduced the principle since used to facilitate uniformity and certainty in annual tax accounting procedure, i.  e., that a taxpayer must report in gross income, in the year in which received, money or property acquired under a ''claim of right” — a colorable claim of the right to exclusive possession of the money or property.  Thus, in its complete form, the sentence in North American Oil from which the above-quoted fragment was extracted reads: “If a taxpayer receives earnings under a claim of right and without *257 restriction as to its [sic] disposition, he has received income which he is required to return, even though it may still be claimed that he is not entitled to retain the money, and even though he may still be adjudged liable to restore its equivalent.” Id., at 424.  (Emphasis added.)