**Concurrence Opinion**
 According to appellant, most of the articles were found in a cardboard box in the basement; one in the suitcase beside .her bed.  All of this material, appellant — and a friend of hers — said were odds and ends belonging to a recent boarder, a man who had left suddenly for New York and had been detained there.  As the Supreme Court of Ohio read the statute under which appellant is charged, she is guilty of the crime whichever story is true.  The Ohio Supreme Court sustained the conviction even though it was based on the documents obtained in the lawless search.  For in Ohio evidence obtained by an unlawful search and seizure is admissible in a criminal prosecution at least where it was not taken from the “defendant’s person by the use of brutal or offensive force against defendant.” State v. Mapp, 170 Ohio St. 427 , 166 N. E. 2d, at 388, syllabus 2; State v. Lindway, 131 Ohio St. 166 , 2 N. E. 2d 490 .  This evidence would have been inadmissible in a federal prosecution.  Weeks v. United States, <citedDecision>232 U. S. 383</citedDecision> ; Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206 .  For, as stated in the former decision, “The effect of the Fourth Amendment is to put the courts of the United States and Federal officials, in the exercise of their power and authority, under limitations and restraints .  .  .  .” Id., 391-392.  It was therefore held that evidence obtained (which in that case was documents and correspondence) from a home without any warrant was not admissible in a federal prosecution.  We held in Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25 , that the Fourth Amendment was applicable to the States by reason of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  But a majority held that the exclusionary rule of the <citedDecision>Weeks</citedDecision> case was not required of the States, that they could apply such sanctions as they chose.  That position had the necessary votes to carry the day. But with all respect it was not the voice of reason or principle.  *670 As stated in the <citedDecision>Weeks</citedDecision> case, if evidence seized in violation of the Fourth Amendment can be used against an accused, “his right to be secure against such searches and seizures is of no value, and .  .  .  might as well be stricken from the Constitution.” <citedDecision>232 U. S., at 393</citedDecision> .  When we allowed States to give constitutional sanction to the “shabby business” of unlawful entry into a home (to use an expression of Mr. Justice Murphy, Wolf v. Colorado , at 46), we did indeed rob the Fourth Amendment of much meaningful force.  There are, of course, other theoretical remedies.  One is disciplinary action within the hierarchy of the police system, including prosecution of the police officer for a crime.  Yet as Mr. Justice Murphy said in Wolf v. Colorado , at 42, “Self-scrutiny is a lofty ideal, but its exaltation reaches new heights if we expect a District Attorney to prosecute himself or his associates for well-meaning violations of the search and seizure clause during a raid the District Attorney or his associates have ordered.” The only remaining remedy, if exclusion of the evidence is not required, is an action of trespass by the homeowner against the offending officer.  Mr. Justice Murphy showed how onerous and difficult it would be for the citizen to maintain that action and how meagre the relief even if the citizen prevails.  338 U. S. 42 -44.