**Dissenting Opinion**
 Further, we are told that imposition of the Weeks rule on the States makes “very good sense,” in that it will promote recognition by state and federal officials of their “mutual obligation to respect the same fundamental criteria” in their approach to law enforcement, and will avoid “ ‘needless conflict between state and federal courts.’ ” Indeed the majority now finds an incongruity *682 in Wolfs discriminating perception between the demands of “ordered liberty” as respects the basic right of “privacy” and the means of securing it among the States.  That perception, resting both on a sensitive regard for our federal system and a sound recognition of this Court’s remoteness from particular state problems, is for me the strength of that decision.  An approach which regards the issue as one of achieving procedural symmetry or of serving administrative convenience surely disfigures the boundaries of this Court’s functions in relation to the state and federal courts.  Our role in promulgating the Weeks rule and its extensions in such cases as Rea, Elkins, and Rios 11 was quite a different one than it is here.  There, in implementing the Fourth Amendment, we occupied the position of a tribunal having the ultimate responsibility for developing the standards and procedures of judicial administration within' the judicial system over which it presides.  Here we review state procedures whose measure is to be taken not against the specific substantive commands of the Fourth Amendment but under the flexible contours of the Due Process Clause.  I do not believe that the Fourteenth Amendment empowers this Court to mould state remedies effectuating the right to freedom from “arbitrary intrusion by the police” to suit its own notions of how things should be done, as, for instance, the California Supreme Court did in People v. Cahan, <citedDecision>44 Cal. 2d 434</citedDecision> , 282 P. 2d 906 , with reference to procedures in the California courts or as this Court did in Weeks for the lower federal courts.  A state conviction comes to us as the complete product of a sovereign judicial system.  Typically a case will have been tried in a trial court, tested in some final appel *683 late court, and will go no further.  In the comparatively rare instance when a conviction is reviewed by us on due process grounds we deal then with a finished product in the creation of which we are allowed no hand, and our task, far from being one of over-all supervision, is, speaking generally, restricted to a determination of whether the prosecution was Constitutionally fair.  The specifics of trial procedure, which in every mature legal system will vary greatly in detail, are within the sole competence of the States.  I do not see how it can be said that a trial becomes unfair simply because a State determines that evidence may be considered by the trier of fact, regardless of how it was obtained, if it is relevant to the one issue with which the trial is concerned, the guilt or innocence of the accused.  Of course, a court may use its procedures as an incidental means of pursuing other ends than the correct resolution of the controversies before it.