**Dissenting Opinion**
 That this is a procedural right, and that its violation occurs at the time his improperly obtained statement is admitted at trial, is manifest.  For without this right all the careful safeguards erected around the giving of testimony, whether by an accused or any other witness, would become empty formalities in a procedure where the most compelling possible evidence of guilt, a confession, would have already been obtained at the unsupervised pleasure of the police.  This, and not the disciplining of the police, as with illegally seized evidence, is surely the true basis for excluding a statement of the accused which was unconstitutionally obtained.  In sum, I think the coerced confession analogy works strongly against what the Court does today.  In conclusion, it should be noted that the majority opinion in this case is in fact an opinion only for the judgment overruling Wolf, and not for the basic rationale by which four members of the majority have reached that result.  For my Brother Black is unwilling to subscribe to their view that the Weeks exclusionary rule derives from the Fourth Amendment itself (see ante, p. 661), but joins the majority opinion on the premise that its end result can be achieved by bringing the Fifth Amendment to the aid of the Fourth (see ante, pp. 662-665).  12 On that score I need only say that whatever the validity of *686 the “Fourth-Fifth Amendment” correlation which the Boyd case ( <citedDecision>116 U. S. 616</citedDecision> ) found, see 8 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed. 1940), § 2184, we have only very recently again reiterated the long-established doctrine of this Court that the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination is not applicable to the States.  See Cohen v. Hurley, 366 U. S. 117 .  I regret that I find so unwise in principle and so inexpedient in policy a decision motivated by the high purpose of increasing respect for Constitutional rights.  But in the last analysis I think this Court can increase respect for the Constitution only if it rigidly respects the limitations which the Constitution places upon it, and respects as well the principles inherent in its own processes.  In the present case I think we exceed both, and that our voice becomes only a voice of power, not of reason.  The material parts of that law are quoted in note 1 of the Court’s opinion.  Ante,-p.