**Dissenting Opinion**
 More than the human dignity of the accused is involved; the human personality of others in the society must also be preserved.  Thus the values reflected by the privilege are not the sole desideratum; society’s interest in the general security is of equal weight.  The obvious underpinning of the Court’s decision is a deep-seated distrust of all confessions.  As the Court declares that the accused may not be interrogated without counsel present, absent a waiver of the right to counsel, and as the Court all but admonishes the lawyer to *538 advise the accused to remain silent, the result adds up to a judicial judgment that evidence from the accused should not be used against him in any way, whether compelled or not.  This is the not so subtle overtone of the opinion — that it is inherently wrong for the police to gather evidence from the accused himself.  And this is precisely the nub of this dissent.  I see nothing wrong or immoral, and certainly nothing unconstitutional, in the police’s asking a suspect whom they have reasonable cause to arrest whether or not he killed his wife or in confronting him with the evidence on which the arrest was based, at least where he has been plainly advised that he may remain completely silent, see Escobedo v. Illinois, <citedDecision>378 U. S. 478, 499</citedDecision> (dissenting opinion).  Until today, “the admissions or confessions of the prisoner, when voluntarily and freely made, have always ranked high in the scale of incriminating evidence.” Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 596 ; see also Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 584-585 .  Particularly when corroborated, as where the police have confirmed the accused’s disclosure of the hiding place of implements or fruits of the crime, such confessions have the highest reliability and significantly contribute to the certitude with which we may believe the accused is guilty.  Moreover, it is by no means certain that the process of confessing is injurious to the accused.  To the contrary it may provide psychological relief and enhance the prospects for rehabilitation.  This is not to say that the value of respect for the inviolability of the accused’s individual personality should be accorded no weight or that all confessions should be indiscriminately admitted.  This Court has long read the Constitution to proscribe compelled confessions, a salutary rule from which there should be no retreat.