**Lead Opinion**
 Moreover, it is consistent with our legal system that we give at least as much protection to these rights as is given in the jurisdictions described.  We deal in our country with rights grounded in a specific requirement of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, *490 whereas other jurisdictions arrived at their conclusions on the basis of principles of justice not so specifically defined.  64 It is also urged upon us that we withhold decision on this issue until state legislative bodies and advisory groups have had an opportunity to deal with these problems by rule making.  65 We have already pointed out that the Constitution does not require any specific code of procedures for protecting the privilege against self-incrimination during custodial interrogation.  Congress and the States are free to develop their own safeguards for the privilege, so long as they are fully as effective as those described above in informing accused persons of their right of silence and in affording a continuous opportunity to exercise it.  In any event, however, the issues presented are of constitutional dimensions and must be determined by the courts.  The admissibility of a statement in the face of a claim that it was obtained in violation of the defendant’s constitutional rights is an issue the resolution of which has long since been undertaken by this Court. See Hopt v. Utah, <citedDecision>110 U. S. 574</citedDecision> (1884).  Judicial solutions to problems of constitutional dimension have evolved decade by decade.  As courts have been presented with the need to enforce constitutional rights, they have found means of doing so. That was our responsibility when Escobedo was before us and it is our *491 responsibility today.  Where rights secured by the Constitution are involved, there can be no rule making or legislation which would abrogate them.  V. Because of the nature of the problem and because of its recurrent significance in numerous cases, we have to this point discussed the relationship of the Fifth Amendment privilege to police interrogation without specific concentration on the facts of the cases before us.  We turn now to these facts to consider the application to these cases of the constitutional principles discussed above.  In each instance, we have concluded that statements were obtained from the defendant under circumstances that did not meet constitutional standards for protection of the privilege.