**Dissenting Opinion**
 .  .  .  And it is laid down *530 that it is not essential to the admissibility of a confession that it should appear that the person was warned that what he said would be used against him, but on the contrary, if the confession was voluntary, it is sufficient though it appear that he was not so warned.” Since Bram , the admissibility of statements made during custodial interrogation has been frequently reiterated.  Powers v. United States, 223 U. S. 303 , cited Wilson approvingly and held admissible as voluntary statements the accused’s testimony at a preliminary hearing even though he was not warned that what he said might be used against him.  Without any discussion of the presence or absence of warnings, presumably because such discussion was deemed unnecessary, numerous other cases have declared that “[t]he mere fact that a confession was made while in the custody of the police does not render it inadmissible,” McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S. 332, 346 ; accord, United States v. Mitchell, 322 U. S. 65 , despite its having been elicited by police examination, Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1, 14 ; United States v. Carignan, 342 U. S. 36, 39 .  Likewise, in Crooker v. California, 357 U. S. 433, 437 , the Court said that “the bare fact of police ‘detention and police examination in private of one in official state custody’ does not render involuntary a confession by the one so detained.” And finally, in Cicenia v. Lagay, <citedDecision>357 U. S. 504</citedDecision> , a confession obtained by police interrogation after arrest was held voluntary even though the authorities refused to permit the defendant to consult with his attorney.  See generally Culombe v. Connecticut, 367 U. S. 568, 587-602 (opinion of Frankfurter, J.); 3 Wigmore, Evidence § 851, at 313 (3d ed. 1940); see also Joy, Admissibility of Confessions 38, 46 (1842).  Only a tiny minority of our judges who have dealt with the question, including today’s majority, have considered in-custody interrogation, without more, to be a violation of the Fifth Amendment.  And this Court, as *531 every member knows, has left standing literally thousands of criminal convictions that rested at least in part on confessions taken in the course of interrogation by the police after arrest.  II.  That the Court’s holding today is neither compelled nor even strongly suggested by the language of the Fifth Amendment, is at odds with American and English legal history, and involves a departure from a long line of precedent does not prove either that the Court has exceeded its powers or that the Court is wrong or unwise in its present reinterpretation of the Fifth Amendment.  It does, however, underscore the obvious — that the Court has not discovered or found the law in making today’s decision, nor has it derived it from some irrefutable sources; what it has done is to make new law and new public policy in much the same way that it has in the course of interpreting other great clauses of the Constitution.