**Dissenting Opinion**
 Thus the clear holding of the Olmstead and Goldman cases, undiluted by any question of trespass, is that eavesdropping, in both its original and modern forms, is not violative of the Fourth Amendment.  While my reading of the Olmstead and Goldman cases convinces me that they were decided on the basis of the inapplicability of the wording of the Fourth Amendment to eavesdropping, and not on any trespass basis, this is not to say that unauthorized intrusion has not played an important role in search and seizure cases. This Court has adopted an exclusionary rule to bar evidence obtained by means of such intrusions.  As I made clear in my dissenting opinion in Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41, 76 , I continue to believe that this exclusionary rule formulated in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383 , rests on the “supervisory power” of this Court over other federal courts and is not rooted in the Fourth Amendment.  See Wolf v. Colorado, concurring opinion, 338 U. S. 25, 39 , at 40.  See also Mapp v. Ohio, concurring opinion, 367 U. S. 643, 661-666 .  This rule has caused the Court to refuse to accept evidence where there has been such an intrusion regardless of whether there has been a search or seizure in violation of the Fourth Amendment.  As this Court said in Lopez v. United States, <citedDecision>373 U. S. 427, 438-439</citedDecision> , “The Court has in the past sustained instances of 'electronic eavesdropping’ against constitutional challenge, when devices have been used to enable government agents to overhear conversations which would have been beyond the reach of the human ear [citing *370 Olmstead and Goldman].  It has been insisted only that the electronic device not be planted by an unlawful physical invasion of a constitutionally protected area.  Silverman v. United States.” To support its new interpretation of the Fourth Amendment, which in effect amounts to a rewriting of the language, the Court's opinion concludes that “the underpinnings of Olmstead and Goldman have been .  .  .  eroded by our subsequent decisions .  .