**Dissenting Opinion**
 Under these circumstances it strikes me as a charge against their scholarship, their common sense and their candor to give to the Fourth Amendment’s language the eavesdropping meaning the Court imputes to it today.  I do not deny that common sense requires and that this Court often has said that the Bill of Rights’ safeguards should be given a liberal construction.  This *367 principle, however, does not justify construing the search and seizure amendment as applying to eavesdropping or the “seizure” of conversations.  The Fourth Amendment was aimed directly at the abhorred practice of breaking in, ransacking and searching homes and other buildings and seizing people’s personal belongings without warrants'issued by magistrates.  The Amendment deserves, and this Court has given it, a liberal construction in order to protect against warrantless searches of buildings and seizures of tangible personal effects.  But until today this Court has refused to say that eavesdropping comes within the ambit of Fourth Amendment restrictions.  See, e. g., Olmstead v. United States, <citedDecision>277 U. S. 438</citedDecision> (1928), and Goldman v. United States, 316 U. S. 129 (1942).  So far I have attempted to state why I think the words of the Fourth Amendment prevent its application to eavesdropping.  It is important now to show that this has been the traditional view of the Amendment’s scope since its adoption and that the Court’s decision in this case, along with its amorphous holding in Berger last Term, marks the first real departure from that view.  The first case to reach this Court which actually involved a clear-cut test of the Fourth Amendment’s applicability to eavesdropping through a wiretap was, of course, Olmstead, su-pra.  In holding that the interception of private telephone conversations by means of wiretapping was not a violation of the Fourth Amendment, this Court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Taft, examined the language of the Amendment and found, just as I do now, that the words could not be stretched to encompass overheard conversations: “The Amendment itself shows that the search is to be of material things — the person, the house, his papers or his effects.  The description of the warrant necessary to make the proceeding lawful, is *368 that it must specify the place to be searched and the person or things to be seized.  .  .  .  “Justice Bradley in the Boyd case [Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616 ], and Justice Clark[e] in the Gouled case [Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298 ], said that the Fifth Amendment and the Fourth Amendment were to be liberally construed to effect the purpose of the framers of the Constitution in the interest of liberty.  But that can not justify enlargement of the language employed beyond the possible practical meaning of houses, persons, papers, and effects, or so to apply the words search and seizure as to forbid hearing or sight.” <citedDecision>277 U. S., at 464-465</citedDecision> .  Goldman v. United States, 316 U. S. 129 , is an even clearer example of this Court’s traditional refusal to consider eavesdropping as being covered by the Fourth Amendment.  There federal agents used a detectaphone, which was placed on the wall of an adjoining room, to listen to the conversation of a defendant carried on in his private office and intended to be confined within the four walls of the room.  This Court, referring to Olmstead, found no Fourth Amendment violation.  It should be noted that the Court in Olmstead based its decision squarely on the fact that wiretapping or eavesdropping does not violate the Fourth Amendment.  As shown, supra, in the cited quotation from the case, the Court went to great pains to examine the actual language of the Amendment and found that the words used simply could not be stretched to cover eavesdropping.  That there was no trespass was not the determinative factor, and indeed the Court in citing Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57 , indicated that even where there was a trespass the Fourth Amendment does not automatically apply to evidence obtained by “hearing or *369 sight.” The Olmstead majority characterized Hester as holding “that the testimony of two officers of the law who trespassed on the defendant’s land, concealed themselves one hundred yards away from his house and saw him come out and hand a bottle of whiskey to another, was not inadmissible.  While there was a trespass, there was no search of person, house, papers or effects.” <citedDecision>277 U. S., at 465</citedDecision> .  Thus the clear holding of the Olmstead and Goldman cases, undiluted by any question of trespass, is that eavesdropping, in both its original and modern forms, is not violative of the Fourth Amendment.  While my reading of the Olmstead and Goldman cases convinces me that they were decided on the basis of the inapplicability of the wording of the Fourth Amendment to eavesdropping, and not on any trespass basis, this is not to say that unauthorized intrusion has not played an important role in search and seizure cases. This Court has adopted an exclusionary rule to bar evidence obtained by means of such intrusions.  As I made clear in my dissenting opinion in Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41, 76 , I continue to believe that this exclusionary rule formulated in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383 , rests on the “supervisory power” of this Court over other federal courts and is not rooted in the Fourth Amendment.  See Wolf v. Colorado, concurring opinion, 338 U. S. 25, 39 , at 40.  See also Mapp v. Ohio, concurring opinion, 367 U. S. 643, 661-666 .  This rule has caused the Court to refuse to accept evidence where there has been such an intrusion regardless of whether there has been a search or seizure in violation of the Fourth Amendment.