**Dissenting Opinion**
 An example, both of the phenomenon of parallelism and the use of the first eight Amendments as evidence of a historic commitment, is found in the partial definition *178 of “liberty” offered by Mr. Justice Holmes, dissenting in Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652 : “The general principle of free speech .  .  .  must be taken to-be included in the Fourteenth Amendment, in view of the scope that has been given to the word ‘liberty’ as there used, although perhaps it may be accepted with a somewhat larger latitude of interpretation than is allowed to Congress by the sweeping language that governs or ought to govern the laws of the United States.” Id., at 672 .  As another example, Mr. Justice Frankfurter, speaking for the Court in Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25, 27-28 , recognized that “[t]he security of one’s privacy against arbitrary intrusion by the police — which is at the core of the Fourth Amendment — is basic to a free society.  It is therefore implicit in ‘the concept of ordered liberty’ and as such enforceable against the States through the Due Process Clause.” The Court has also found among the procedural requirements of “due process of law” certain rules paralleling requirements of the first eight Amendments.  For example, in Powell v. Alabama, <citedDecision>287 U. S. 45</citedDecision> , the Court ruled that a State could not deny counsel to an accused in a capital case: “The fact that the right involved is of such a character that it cannot be denied without violating those ‘fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of all our civil and political institutions’ ... is obviously one of those compelling considerations which must prevail in determining whether it is embraced within the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, although it be specifically dealt with in another part of the federal Constitution.” <citedDecision>Id., at 67</citedDecision> .  (Emphasis added.) *179 Later, the right to counsel was extended to all felony-cases.  14 The Court has also ruled, for example, that “due process” means a speedy process, so that liberty will not be long restricted prior to an adjudication, and evidence of fact will not become stale; 15 that in a system committed to the resolution of issues of fact by adversary proceedings the right to confront opposing witnesses must be guaranteed; 16 and that if issues of fact are tried to a jury, fairness demands a jury impartially selected.  17 That these requirements are fundamental to procedural fairness hardly needs redemonstration.  In all of these instances, the right guaranteed against the States by the Fourteenth Amendment was one that had also been guaranteed against the Federal Government by one of the first eight Amendments.  The logically critical thing, however, was not that the rights had been found in the Bill of Rights, but that they were deemed, in the context of American legal history, to be fundamental.  This was perhaps best explained by Mr. Justice Cardozo, speaking for a Court that included Chief Justice Hughes and Justices Brandéis and Stone, in Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319 : “If the Fourteenth Amendment has absorbed them, the process of absorption has had its source in the belief that neither liberty nor justice would exist if they were sacrificed.” Id., at 326 .  Referring to <citedDecision>Powell</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Alabama, supra,</citedDecision> Mr. Justice Cardozo continued: “The decision did not turn upon the fact that the benefit of counsel would have been guaranteed to *180 the defendants by the provisions of the Sixth Amendment if they had been prosecuted in a federal court. The decision turned upon the fact that in the particular situation laid before us in the evidence the benefit of counsel was essential to the substance of a hearing.” Id., at 327.  Mr. Justice Cardozo then went on to explain that the Fourteenth Amendment did not impose on each State every rule of procedure that some other State, or the federal courts, thought desirable, but only those rules critical to liberty: “The line of division may seem to be wavering and broken if there is a hasty catalogue of the cases on the one side and the other.  Reflection and analysis will induce a different view.  There emerges the perception of a rationalizing principle which gives to discrete instances a proper order and coherence.  The right to trial by jury and the immunity from prosecution except as the result of an indictment may have value and importance.  Even so, they are not of the very essence of a scheme of ordered liberty.  To abolish them is not to violate a ‘principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental.'