**Lead Opinion**
 IV. It is clear that petitioner’s larceny conviction cannot stand once federal double jeopardy standards are applied.  Petitioner was acquitted of larceny in his first trial. Because he decided to appeal his burglary conviction, he is forced to suffer retrial on the larceny count as well.  As this Court held in Green v. United States, supra, at 193— 194, “[conditioning an appeal of one offense on a coerced surrender of a valid plea of former jeopardy on another offense exacts a forfeiture in plain conflict with the constitutional bar against double jeopardy.” Maryland argues that Green does not apply to this case because petitioner’s original indictment was absolutely void.  One cannot be placed in “jeopardy” by a void indictment, the State argues.  This argument sounds a bit strange, however, since petitioner could quietly have served out his sentence under this “void” indictment had he not appealed his burglary conviction.  Only by accepting the option of a new trial could the in *797 dictment be set aside; at worst the indictment would seem only voidable at the defendant’s option, not absolutely void.  In any case, this argument was answered here over 70 years ago in United States v. Ball, <citedDecision>163 U. S. 662</citedDecision> (1896).  In that case Millard Fillmore Ball was indicted, together with two other men, for the murder of one William T. Box in the Indian Territory.  He was acquitted and his codefendants were convicted.  They appealed and won a reversal on the ground that the indictment erroneously failed to aver the time or place of Box’s death.  All three defendants were retried, and this time Ball was convicted.  This Court sustained his double jeopardy claim, notwithstanding the technical invalidity of the indictment upon which he was first tried.  The Court refused to allow the Government to allege its own error to deprive the defendant of the benefit of an acquittal by a jury.  <citedDecision>Id., at 667-668</citedDecision> .  “ [A] lthough the indictment was fatally defective, yet, if the court had jurisdiction of the cause and of the party, its judgment is not void, but only voidable by writ of error .  .  .  ,” and the Government could not have the acquittal set aside over the defendant’s objections.  <citedDecision>Id., at 669-670</citedDecision> .  This case is totally indistinguishable.  Petitioner was acquitted of larceny.  He has, under Green , a valid double jeopardy plea which he cannot be forced to waive.  Yet Maryland wants the earlier acquittal set aside, over petitioner’s objections, because of a defect in the indictment.  This it cannot do.  Petitioner’s larceny conviction cannot stand.