**Concurrence Opinion**
 Mr. Justice Holmes, though never formally abandoning the “clear and present danger” test, moved closer to the First Amendment ideal when he said in dissent in Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652 , 673: “Every idea is an incitement.  It offers itself for belief and if believed it is acted on unless some other belief outweighs it or some failure of energy stifles the movement at its birth.  The only difference between the expression of an opinion and an incitement in the narrower sense is the speaker’s enthusiasm for the result.  Eloquence may set fire to reason.  But whatever may be thought of the redundant discourse before us it had no chance of starting a present conflagration.  If in the long run the beliefs expressed in proletarian dictatorship are destined to be accepted by the dominant forces of the community, the only meaning of free speech is that they should be given their chance and have their way.” We have never been faithful to the philosophy of that dissent.  *453 The Court in Herndon v. Lowry, <citedDecision>301 U. S. 242</citedDecision> , overturned a conviction for exercising First Amendment rights to incite insurrection because of lack of evidence of incitement.  <citedDecision>Id., at 259-261</citedDecision> .  And see Hartzel v. United States, 322 U. S. 680 .  In Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252, 261-263 , we approved the “clear and present danger” test in an elaborate dictum that tightened it and confined it to a narrow category.  But in Dennis v. United States, 341 U. S. 494 , we opened wide the door, distorting the “clear and present danger” test beyond recognition.  1 In that case the prosecution dubbed an agreement to teach the Marxist creed a “conspiracy.” The case was submitted to a jury on a charge that the jury could not convict unless it found that the defendants “intended to overthrow the Government ‘as speedily as circumstances would permit.' ” Id., at 509-511 .  The Court sustained convictions under that charge, construing it to mean a determination of ‘“whether the gravity of the “evil,” discounted by its improbability, justifies such invasion of free speech as is necessary to avoid the danger.’ ” 2 Id., at 510 , quoting from United States v. Dennis, 183 F. 2d 201, 212 .