**Concurrence Opinion**
 While I join the opinion of the Court, I desire to enter a caveat.  The “clear and present danger” test was adumbrated by Mr. Justice Holmes in a case arising during World War I — a war “declared” by the Congress, not by the Chief Executive.  The case was Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52 , where the defendant was charged with attempts to cause insubordination in the military and obstruction of enlistment.  The pamphlets that were distributed urged resistance to the draft, denounced conscription, and impugned the motives of those backing the war effort.  The First Amendment was tendered as a defense.  Mr. Justice Holmes in rejecting that defense said: “The question in every case is whether the words used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent.  It is a question of proximity and degree.” Frohwerk v. United States, <citedDecision>249 U. S. 204</citedDecision> , also authored by Mr. Justice Holmes, involved prosecution and punishment for publication of articles very critical of the war effort in World War I.  Schenck was referred to as a conviction for obstructing security “by words of persuasion.” Id., at 206.  And the conviction in <citedDecision>Frohwerk</citedDecision> was sustained because “the circulation of the paper was *451 in quarters where a little breath would be enough to kindle a flame.” <citedDecision>Id., at 209</citedDecision> .  Debs v. United States, 249 U. S. 211 , was the third of the trilogy of the 1918 Term. Debs was convicted of speaking in opposition to the war where his “opposition was so expressed that its natural and intended effect would be to obstruct recruiting.” Id., at 215 .  “If that was intended and if, in all the circumstances, that would be its probable effect, it would not be protected by reason of its being part of a general program and expressions of a general and conscientious belief.” Ibid. In the 1919 Term, the Court applied the Schenck doctrine to affirm the convictions of other dissidents in World War I.  Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616 , was one instance.  Mr. Justice Holmes, with whom Mr. Justice Brandéis concurred, dissented.  While adhering to Schenck , he did not think that on the facts a case for overriding the First Amendment had been made out: “It is only the present danger of immediate evil or an intent to bring it about that warrants Congress in setting a limit to the expression of opinion where private rights are not concerned.  Congress certainly cannot forbid all effort to change the mind of the country.” Id., at 628.