**Concurrence Opinion**
 Another instance was Schaefer v. United States, 251 U. S. 466 , in which Mr. Justice Brandeis, joined by Mr. Justice Holmes, dissented.  A third was Pierce v. United States, 252 U. S. 239 , in which again Mr. Justice Brandéis, joined by Mr. Justice Holmes, dissented.  Those, then, were the World War I cases that put the gloss of “clear and present danger” on the First Amendment.  Whether the war power — the greatest leveler of them all — is adequate to sustain that doctrine is debat *452 able.  The dissents in Abrams, Schaefer, and Pierce show how easily “clear and present danger” is manipulated to crush what Brandéis called “[t]he fundamental right of free men to strive for better conditions through new legislation and new institutions” by argument and discourse (Pierce v. United States, supra, at 273) even in time of war.  Though I doubt if the “clear and present danger” test is congenial to the First Amendment in time of a declared war, I am certain it is not reconcilable with the First Amendment in days of peace.  The Court quite properly overrules Whitney v. California, <citedDecision>274 U. S. 357</citedDecision> , which involved advocacy of ideas which the majority of the Court deemed unsound and dangerous.  Mr. Justice Holmes, though never formally abandoning the “clear and present danger” test, moved closer to the First Amendment ideal when he said in dissent in Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652 , 673: “Every idea is an incitement.  It offers itself for belief and if believed it is acted on unless some other belief outweighs it or some failure of energy stifles the movement at its birth.  The only difference between the expression of an opinion and an incitement in the narrower sense is the speaker’s enthusiasm for the result.  Eloquence may set fire to reason.  But whatever may be thought of the redundant discourse before us it had no chance of starting a present conflagration.  If in the long run the beliefs expressed in proletarian dictatorship are destined to be accepted by the dominant forces of the community, the only meaning of free speech is that they should be given their chance and have their way.” We have never been faithful to the philosophy of that dissent.