**Lead Opinion**
 The limiting views expressed in Go-Bart and Lefkowitz were thrown to the winds, however, in Harris v. United *758 States, 331 U. S. 145 , decided in 1947.  In that case, officers had obtained a warrant for Harris’ arrest on the basis of his alleged involvement with the cashing and interstate transportation of a forged check.  He was arrested in the living room of his four-room apartment, and in an attempt to recover two canceled checks thought to have been used in effecting the forgery, the officers undertook a thorough search of the entire apartment.  Inside a desk drawer they found a sealed envelope marked “George Harris, personal papers.” The envelope, which was then torn open, was found to contain altered Selective Service documents, and those documents were used to secure Harris’ conviction for violating the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.  The Court rejected Harris’ Fourth Amendment claim, sustaining the search as “incident to arrest.” Id., at 151 .  Only a year after Harris , however, the pendulum swung again.  In Trupiano v. United States, <citedDecision>334 U. S. 699</citedDecision> , agents raided the site of an illicit distillery, saw one of several conspirators operating the still, and arrested him, contemporaneously “seiz[ing] the illicit distillery.” <citedDecision>Id., at 702</citedDecision> .  The Court held that the arrest and others made subsequently had been valid, but that the unexplained failure of the agents to procure a search warrant — in spite of the fact that they had had more than enough time before the raid to do so — rendered the search unlawful.  The opinion stated: “It is a cardinal rule that, in seizing goods and articles, law enforcement agents must secure and use search warrants wherever reasonably practicable.  .  .  .  This rule rests upon the desirability of having magistrates rather than police officers determine when searches and seizures are permissible and what limitations should be placed upon such activities.  ... To provide the necessary security against unreasonable intrusions upon the private lives of *759 individuals, the framers of the Fourth Amendment required adherence to judicial processes wherever possible.  And subsequent history has confirmed the wisdom of that requirement.  “A search or seizure without a warrant as an incident to a lawful arrest has always been considered to be a strictly limited right.  It grows out of the inherent necessities of the situation at the time of the arrest.  But there must be something more in the way of necessity than merely a lawful arrest.” <citedDecision>Id., at 705, 708</citedDecision> .  In 1950, two years after Trupiano, 3 came United States v. Rabinowitz, 339 U. S. 56 , the decision upon which California primarily relies in the case now before us.  In Rabinowitz , federal authorities had been informed that the defendant was dealing in stamps bearing forged overprints.  On the basis of that information they secured a warrant for his arrest, which they executed at his one-room business office.  At the time of the arrest, the officers “searched the desk, safe, and file cabinets in the office for about an hour and a half,” id., at 59 , and seized 573 stamps with forged overprints.  The stamps were admitted into evidence at the defendant’s trial, and this Court affirmed his conviction, rejecting the contention that the warrantless search had been unlawful.  The Court held that the search in its entirety fell within the principle giving law enforcement authorities “[t]he right 'to search the place where the arrest is made in order to find and seize things connected with the crime ....’” Id., at 61 .  Harris was regarded as “ample authority” for that conclusion.  Id., at 63.  The opinion rejected the rule of <citedDecision>Trupiano</citedDecision> that “in seizing goods and articles, law enforcement agents must secure and use search war *760 rants wherever reasonably practicable.” The test, said the Court, “is not whether it is reasonable to procure a search warrant, but whether the search was reasonable.” Id., at 66.  Rabinowitz has come to stand for the proposition, inter alia, that a warrantless search “incident to a lawful arrest” may generally extend to the area that is considered to be in the “possession” or under the “control” of the person arrested.  4 And it was on the basis of that proposition that the California courts upheld the search of the petitioner’s entire house in this case. That doctrine, however, at least in the broad sense in which it was applied by the California courts in this case, can withstand neither historical nor rational analysis.  Even limited to its own facts, the Rabinowitz decision was, as we have seen, hardly founded on an unimpeachable line of authority.  As Mr. Justice Frankfurter commented in dissent in that case, the “hint” contained in Weeks was, without persuasive justification, “loosely turned into dictum and finally elevated to a decision.” 339 U. S., at 76 .  And the approach taken in cases such as Go-Bart, Lefkowitz, and <citedDecision>Trupiano</citedDecision> was essentially disregarded by the Rabinowitz Court. Nor is the rationale by which the State seeks here to sustain the search of the petitioner’s house supported by a reasoned view of the background and purpose of the Fourth Amendment.  Mr. Justice Frankfurter wisely pointed out in his Rabinowitz dissent that the Amendment’s proscription of “unreasonable searches and sei *761 zures” must be read in light of “the history that gave rise to the words” — a history of “abuses so deeply felt by the Colonies as to be one of the potent causes of the Revolution .  .  .  .” 339 U. S., at 69 .  The Amendment was in large part a reaction to the general warrants and war-rantless searches that had so alienated the colonists and had helped speed the movement for independence.  5 In the scheme of the Amendment, therefore, the requirement that “no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,” plays a crucial part.