**Dissenting Opinion**
 Such rapid reversals have occurred before, 1 but they are rare.  Here there had been two about-faces, one following hard upon the other.  Justice Frankfurter objected in this language: “Especially ought the Court not reenforce needlessly the instabilities of our day by giving fair ground for the belief that Law is the expression of *772 chance — for instance, of unexpected changes in the Court’s composition and the contingencies in the choice of successors.” 339 U. S., at 86 .  Since that time, the rule of Weeks, Marron, Harris, and Rabinowitz has clearly been the law. E. g., Abel v. United States, 362 U. S. 217 (1960) (Frankfurter, J., writing for the Court) ; Ker v. California, 374 U. S. 23 (1963).  2 II.  The rule which has prevailed, but for very brief or doubtful periods of aberration, is that a search incident to an arrest may extend to those areas under the control of the defendant and where items subject to constitutional seizure may be found. The justification for this rule must, under the language of the Fourth Amendment, lie in the reasonableness of the rule.  Terry v. Ohio, <citedDecision>392 U. S. 1, 9</citedDecision> (1968); Sibron v. New York, 392 U. S. 40 (1968); Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206, 222 (1960).  The Amendment provides: “The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.” In terms, then, the Court must decide whether a given search is reasonable.  The Amendment does not proscribe “warrantless searches” but instead it proscribes “unrea *773 sonable searches” and this Court has never held nor does the majority today assert that warrantless searches are necessarily unreasonable.  Applying this reasonableness test to the area of searches incident to arrests, one thing is clear at the outset.  Search of an arrested man and of the items within his immediate reach must in almost every case be reasonable.  There is always a danger that the suspect will try to escape, seizing concealed weapons with which to overpower and injure the arresting officers, and there is a danger that he may destroy evidence vital to the prosecution.  Circumstances in which these justifications would not apply are sufficiently rare that inquiry is not made into searches of this scope, which have been considered reasonable throughout.