**Lead Opinion**
 .  accommodation” cannot be “justly regarded as imposing any badge of slavery or servitude upon the applicant.” 109 U. S., at 24 .  “It would be running the slavery argument into the ground,” the Court thought, “to make it apply to every act of discrimination which a person may see fit to make as to the guests he will entertain, or as to the people he will take into his coach or cab or car, or admit to his concert or theatre, or deal with in other matters of intercourse or business.” Id., at 24-25 .  Mr. Justice Harlan dissented, expressing the view that “such discrimination practised by corporations and individuals in the exercise of their public or quasi-public functions is a badge of servitude the imposition of which Congress may prevent under its power, by appropriate legislation, to enforce the Thirteenth Amendment.” Id., at 43 .  Whatever the present validity of the position taken by the majority on that issue — a question rendered largely academic by Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 243 (see Heart of Atlanta Motel v. United States, 379 U. S. 241 ; Katzenbach v. McClung, 379 U. S. 294 ) — we note that the entire Court agreed upon at least one proposition: .The Thirteenth Amendment authorizes Congress not only to outlaw all forms of slavery and involuntary servitude but also to eradicate the last vestiges and incidents of a society half slave and half free, by securing to all citizens, of every race and color, “the same right to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to inherit, purchase, lease, sell and convey property, as is enjoyed by white citizens.” 109 U. S., at 22 .  Cf. id., at 35 (dissenting opinion).  In Hodges v. United States, <citedDecision>203 U. S. 1</citedDecision> , a group of white men had terrorized several Negroes to prevent them from working in a *442 sawmill.  The terrorizes were convicted under 18 U. S. C. § 241 (then Revised Statutes § 5508) of conspiring to prevent the Negroes from exercising the right to contract for employment, a right secured by 42 U. S. C. § 1981 (then Revised Statutes § 1977, derived from § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, see n. 28, supra).  Section 1981 provides, in terms that closely parallel those of § 1982 (then Revised Statutes § 1978), that all persons in the United States “shall have the same right ... to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens ...” (Emphasis added.) This Court reversed the conviction.  The majority recognized that "one of the disabilities of slavery, one of the indicia of its existence, was a lack of power to make or perform contracts.” <citedDecision>203 U. S., at 17</citedDecision> .  And there was no doubt that the defendants had deprived their Negro victims, on racial grounds, of the opportunity to dispose of their labor by contract.  Yet the majority said that “no mere personal assault or trespass or appropriation operates to reduce the individual to a condition of slavery,” <citedDecision>id., at 18</citedDecision> , and asserted that only conduct which actually enslaves someone can be subjected to punishment under legislation enacted to enforce the Thirteenth Amendment.  Contra, United States v. Cruikshank, 25 Fed. Cas. 707, 712 (No. 14,897) (dictum of Mr. Justice Bradley, on circuit), aff’d, 92 U. S. 542 ; United States v. Morris, 125 F. 322, 324, 330-331 .  Mr. Justice Harlan, joined by Mr. Justice Day, dissented.  In their view, the interpretation the majority placed upon the Thirteenth Amendment was “entirely too narrow and .  .  .  hostile to the freedom established by the supreme law of the land.” <citedDecision>203 U. S., at 37</citedDecision> .  That interpretation went far, they thought, “towards neutralizing many declarations made as to the object of the recent Amendments of the Constitution, a common purpose of which, this court has said, was to secure to a people theretofore in servitude, the free enjoyment, without discrimination merely on account of their race, of the essential rights that appertain to American citizenship and to freedom.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> The conclusion of the majority in <citedDecision>Hodges</citedDecision> rested upon a concept of congressional power under the Thirteenth Amendment irrecon *443 cilable with the position taken by every member of this Court in the Civil Rights Cases and incompatible with the history and purpose of the Amendment itself.  Insofar as <citedDecision>Hodges</citedDecision> is inconsistent with our holding today, it is hereby overruled.  See text accompanying n. 48, supra. Ibid. See text accompanying n. 62, supra. Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 1118.  Ibid.