**Combined Opinion**
 In McGoldrick v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 309 U. S. 430 (1940), the Court, while recognizing it had jurisdiction to determine whether a New York tax was an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, refused to consider whether the tax was a prohibited impost or duty on imports and exports, saying: "[I]t is only in exceptional cases, and then only in cases coming from the federal courts, that [the Court] considers questions urged by a petitioner or appellant not pressed or passed upon in the courts below.  .  .  .  [D]ue regard for the appropriate relationship of this Court to state courts requires us to decline to consider and decide questions affecting the validity of state statutes not urged or considered there." Id., at 434 .  Wilson v. Cook, <citedDecision>327 U. S. 474</citedDecision> (1946), reached a similar conclusion.  There the Court denied a government contractor the benefit of the implied constitutional immunity of the Federal Government from taxation by the State, but at the same time declined to consider whether the state tax at issue placed a forbidden tax directly on the United States.  This was because the Court was "not free to consider" a ground of attack "not presented to the Supreme Court of Arkansas or considered or decided by it," even though the issue was in some measure related to one actually decided by the state courts and arose under the same implied constitutional immunity argument.  <citedDecision>Id., at 483</citedDecision> .  Cf. Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 197-198 (1899).  The Court relied on McGoldrick and a long line of prior cases, including New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 317 (1937), *681 where the Court had said: "In reviewing the judgment of a state court, this Court will not pass upon any federal question not shown by the record to have been raised in the state court or considered there, whether it be one arising under a different or the same clause in the Constitution with respect to which other questions are properly presented." The result is the same when a party has attempted to raise an issue in the state court but has not done so in proper or timely fashion.  "Questions first presented to the highest State court on a petition for rehearing come too late for consideration here .  .  .