**Concurrence Opinion**
Mr. Justice Brennan, whom Mr. Justice Douglas and Mr. Justice Marshall join, concurring.  I agree that the Double Jeopardy Clause incorporates collateral estoppel as a constitutional requirement and therefore join the Court’s opinion.  However, even if *449 the rule of collateral estoppel had been inapplicable to the facts of this case, it is my view that the Double Jeopardy Clause nevertheless bars the prosecution of petitioner a second time for armed robbery.  The two prosecutions, the first for the robbery of Knight and the second for the robbery of Roberts, grew out of one criminal episode, and therefore I think it clear on the facts of this case that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibited Missouri from prosecuting petitioner for each robbery at a different trial. Abbate v. United States, 359 U. S. 187, 196-201 (1959) (separate opinion).  My conclusion is not precluded by the Court's decision in Hoag v. New Jersey, <citedDecision>356 U. S. 464</citedDecision> (1958), although the basic fact situation there was identical to that in this case. Three armed men entered a tavern and robbed five customers.  Hoag was tried and acquitted under indictments for robbing three of the customers.  He was then brought to trial under a fourth indictment, the same as the first three in all respects except that it named a fourth customer as the victim.  This time Hoag was convicted.  The New Jersey courts, in rejecting Hoag’s double-jeopardy claim, construed the applicable New Jersey statute as making each of the four robberies, although taking place on the same occasion, a separate offense.  This construction was consistent with the state courts’ view that a claim of double jeopardy cannot be upheld unless the same evidence necessary to sustain a second indictment would have been sufficient to secure a conviction on the first.  The issues differed only in the identifications of the victims and the property taken from each; otherwise the State’s evidence covered the same ground at both trials.  This Court stated that it was unable to hold that the Due Process *450 Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment “always prevents a State from allowing different offenses arising out of the same act or transaction to be prosecuted separately, as New Jersey has done.  For it has long been recognized as the very essence of our federalism that the States should have the widest latitude in the administration of their own systems of criminal justice.” <citedDecision>356 U. S., at 468</citedDecision> .  But in the present case Missouri did not have “the widest latitude” because Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784 (1969), decided after <citedDecision>Hoag</citedDecision> , held that the Fifth Amendment guarantee that no person shall “be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb” is enforceable against the States, and North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U. S. 711 (1969), accorded fully retroactive effect to that holding.  This means, under our decisions, that federal standards as to what constitutes the “same offence” apply alike to federal and state proceedings; it would be incongruous to have different standards determine the validity of a claim of double jeopardy depending on whether the claim was asserted in a state or federal court. Cf. Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1, 11 (1964).  The Double Jeopardy Clause is a guarantee “that the State with all its resources and power [shall] not be allowed to make repeated attempts to convict an individual for an alleged offense, thereby subjecting him to embarrassment, expense and ordeal and compelling him to live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity .  .  .  .” Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187 (1957).  This guarantee is expressed as a prohibition against multiple prosecutions for the “same offence.” Although the phrase “same offence” appeared in most of the early common-law articulations of the double-jeop *451 ardy principle, 1 questions of its precise meaning rarely arose prior to the 18th century, and by the time the Bill of Rights was adopted it had not been authoritatively defined.  2 When the common law did finally attempt a definition, in The King v. Vandercomb, 2 Leach 708, 720, 168 Eng. Rep. 455, 461 (Crown 1796), it adopted the “same evidence” test, which provided little protection from multiple prosecution: “[U]nless the first indictment were such as the prisoner might have been convicted upon by proof of the facts contained in the second indictment, an acquittal on the first indictment can be no bar to the second.” The “same evidence” test of “same offence” was soon followed by a majority of American jurisdictions, but its deficiencies are obvious.  It does not enforce but virtually annuls the constitutional guarantee.  For example, where a single criminal episode involves several victims, under the “same evidence” test a separate prosecution may be brought as to each.  E. g., State v. Hoag, 21 N. J. 496, 122 A. 2d 628 (1956), aff’d, <citedDecision>356 U. S. 464</citedDecision> (1958).  The “same evidence” test permits multiple prosecutions where a single transaction is divisible into chronologically discrete crimes.  E. g., Johnson v. Commonwealth, 201 Ky. 314 , 256 S. W. 388 (1923) (each of 75 poker hands a separate “offense”).  Even a single criminal act may lead to multiple prosecutions if it is viewed from the perspectives of different statutes.  E. g., *452 State v. Elder, 65 Ind. 282 (1879).  Given the tendency of modern criminal legislation to divide the phases of a criminal transaction into numerous separate crimes, the opportunities for multiple prosecutions for an essentially unitary criminal episode are frightening.  And given our tradition of virtually unreviewable prosecutorial discretion concerning the initiation and scope of a criminal prosecution, 3 the potentialities for abuse inherent in the ‘‘same evidence” test are simply intolerable.