**Concurrence Opinion**
 This time Hoag was convicted.  The New Jersey courts, in rejecting Hoag’s double-jeopardy claim, construed the applicable New Jersey statute as making each of the four robberies, although taking place on the same occasion, a separate offense.  This construction was consistent with the state courts’ view that a claim of double jeopardy cannot be upheld unless the same evidence necessary to sustain a second indictment would have been sufficient to secure a conviction on the first.  The issues differed only in the identifications of the victims and the property taken from each; otherwise the State’s evidence covered the same ground at both trials.  This Court stated that it was unable to hold that the Due Process *450 Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment “always prevents a State from allowing different offenses arising out of the same act or transaction to be prosecuted separately, as New Jersey has done.  For it has long been recognized as the very essence of our federalism that the States should have the widest latitude in the administration of their own systems of criminal justice.” 356 U. S., at 468 .  But in the present case Missouri did not have “the widest latitude” because Benton v. Maryland, <citedDecision>395 U. S. 784</citedDecision> (1969), decided after Hoag , held that the Fifth Amendment guarantee that no person shall “be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb” is enforceable against the States, and North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U. S. 711 (1969), accorded fully retroactive effect to that holding.  This means, under our decisions, that federal standards as to what constitutes the “same offence” apply alike to federal and state proceedings; it would be incongruous to have different standards determine the validity of a claim of double jeopardy depending on whether the claim was asserted in a state or federal court. Cf. Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1, 11 (1964).  The Double Jeopardy Clause is a guarantee “that the State with all its resources and power [shall] not be allowed to make repeated attempts to convict an individual for an alleged offense, thereby subjecting him to embarrassment, expense and ordeal and compelling him to live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity .  .  .  .” Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187 (1957).  This guarantee is expressed as a prohibition against multiple prosecutions for the “same offence.” Although the phrase “same offence” appeared in most of the early common-law articulations of the double-jeop *451 ardy principle, 1 questions of its precise meaning rarely arose prior to the 18th century, and by the time the Bill of Rights was adopted it had not been authoritatively defined.