**Combined Opinion**
 While the Brantley holding may have had some vitality at the time the Georgia courts rendered their decisions in this case, it is no longer a viable authority and must now be deemed to have been overruled by subsequent decisions of this Court. 9 *331 (2) One further consideration remains.  Because the petitioner was convicted of the same crime at both the first and second trials, and because he suffered no greater punishment on the subsequent conviction, Georgia submits that the second jeopardy was harmless error when judged by the criteria of Chapman v. California, 386 U. S. 18 (1967), and Harrington v. California, 395 U. S. 250 (1969).  We must reject this contention.  The Double Jeopardy Clause, as we have noted, is cast in terms of the risk or hazard of trial and conviction, not of the ultimate legal consequences of the verdict.  To be charged and to be subjected to a second trial for first-degree murder is an ordeal not to be viewed lightly.  10 Further, and perhaps of more importance, we cannot determine whether or not the murder charge against petitioner induced the jury to find him guilty of the less serious offense of voluntary manslaughter rather than to continue to debate his innocence.  See United States ex rel. Hetenyi v. *332 Wilkins, <citedDecision>348 F. 2d 844</citedDecision> (C. A. 2d Cir. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U. S. 913 (1966).  (3) We asked the parties to submit post-argument mem-oranda directed to the question of whether petitioner can now be re-indicted or retried for voluntary manslaughter under Georgia law. These memoranda have been filed and indicate that the answer to our question appears to depend upon the construction of several Georgia statutes and on the power of Georgia courts to fashion remedial orders.  Accordingly, although we reverse petitioner’s conviction, we also remand the case to enable the Georgia courts to resolve the issues pertaining to petitioner’s retrial, if any such retrial is to be had.  Reversed and remanded.  MR. Justice Blackmun took no part in the consideration or decision of this case. 1 Georgia’s Constitution provides for direct review in the Georgia Supreme Court of, among others, “all cases that involve the construction of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or of the United States ...” Ga. Const., Art. VI, § 2, ¶ 4.  2 Keener rested upon a portion of the Ball case that dealt with a criminal action that had been finally resolved.  In Ball the Court had held that the Government could not re-indict an accused for an offense where a judgment of acquittal had been entered by a trial court with jurisdiction over the accused and the cause.