**Concurrence Opinion**
 I suspect the Court’s decision today will astonish those members of the Congress who were responsible for the District of Columbia Code provision, and will equally astonish the legislatures of those 44 States that absorbed assurance from Reitz and Kesler that the provision withstands constitutional attack.  3.  The Court rationalizes today’s decision by saying that Kesler went beyond Reitz and that the present case goes beyond Kesler , and that that is too much.  It would justify this by noting the Arizona Supreme Court’s characterization of the Arizona statute as one for the protection of the public from financial hardship and by con- *667 eluding, from this description, that the statute is not a public highway safety measure, but rather a financial one protective, I assume the implication is, of insurance companies.  The Arizona court’s characterization of its statute, I must concede, is not a fortunate one.  However, I doubt that that court, in evolving that description, had any idea of the consequences to be wrought by this Court’s decision today.  I am not willing to say that the description in Schecter v. Killingsworth, <citedDecision>93 Ariz. 273</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>380 P. 2d 136</citedDecision> (1963), embraced the only purpose of the State’s legislation.  Section 28-1163 (B) is a part of the State’s Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act and does not constitute an isolated subchapter of that Act concerned only with financial well-being of the victims of drivers’ negligence.  In any event, as the Court’s opinion makes clear, the decision today would be the same however the Arizona court had described its statute.  4.  While stare decisis “is no immutable principle,” 7 as a glance at the Court’s decisions over the last 35 years, or over almost any period for that matter, will disclose, it seems to me that the principle does have particular validity and application in a situation such as the one confronting the Court in this case. Here is a statute concerning motor vehicle responsibility, a substantive matter peculiarly within the competence of the State rather than the National Government.  Here is a serious and conscientious attempt by a State to legislate and do something about the problem that, in terms of death and bodily injury and adverse civilian effect, is so alarming.  Here is a statute widely adopted by the several States and legitimately assumed by the lawmakers of those States to be consistent with the Bankruptcy Act, an assumption rooted in positive, albeit divided, decision *668 by this Court, not once, but twice.