**Dissenting Opinion**
 The regulations *693 which require States to make corrective payments retroactively in the event of a successful fair hearing challenge, 45 CFR § 205.10 (a) (18), merely confirm the obvious statutory intent.  .HEW regulations also authorize federal matching funds for retroactive assistance payments made pursuant to court order, 45 CFR §§ 205.10 (b) (2), (b)(3).  We should not lightly disregard this explicit recognition by the agency charged with administration of the statute that such a remedy was authorized by Congress.  See Griggs v. Duke Power Co., 401 U. S. 424, 433-434 (1971).  Illinois chose to participate in the AABD program with its eyes wide open.  Drawn by the lure of federal funds, it voluntarily obligated itself to comply with the Social Security Act and HEW regulations, with full knowledge that Congress had authorized assistance recipients to go into federal court to enforce these obligations and to recover benefits wrongfully denied.  Any doubts on this score must surely have been removed by our decisions in Rosado v. Wyman, supra, and Shapiro v. Thompson, <citedDecision>394 U. S. 618</citedDecision> (1969), where we affirmed a district court retroactive payment order.  I cannot avoid the conclusion that, by virtue of its knowing and voluntary decision to nevertheless participate in the program, the State necessarily consented to subject itself to these suits.  I have no quarrel with the Court’s view that waiver of constitutional rights should not lightly be inferred.  But I simply cannot believe that the State could have entered into this essentially contractual agreement with the Federal Government without recognizing that it was subjecting itself to the full scope of the § 1983 remedy provided by Congress to enforce the terms of the agreement.  Of course, § 1983 suits are nominally brought against state officers, rather than the State itself, and do not *694 ordinarily raise Eleventh Amendment problems in view of this Court’s decision in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123 (1908).  But to the extent that the relief authorized by Congress in an action under § 1983 may be open to Eleventh Amendment objections, 2 these objections are waived when the State agrees to comply with federal requirements enforceable in such an action.  I do not find persuasive the Court’s reliance in this case on the fact that “congressional authorization to sue a class of defendants which literally includes States” is absent.