**Combined Opinion**
 The Max Morris, 137 U. S. 1, 12 .  Although there is some force in this argument, it cannot justify an equal division of damages in every ease of collision based on mutual fault.  When it is impossible fairly to allocate degrees of fault, the division of damages equally between wrongdoing parties is an equitable solution.  But the rule is unnecessarily crude and inequitable in a case like this one where an allocation of disparate proportional fault has been made.  Potential problems of proof in some cases hardly require adherence to an archaic and unfair rule in all cases. Every other major maritime nation has evidently been able to apply a rule of comparative negligence without serious problems, see Mole & Wilson, A Study of Comparative Negligence, 17 Corn.  L. Q. 333, 346 (1932); In re Adams’ Petition, 125 F. Supp. 110 , 114 (SDNY), aff’d, 237 F. 2d 884 (CA2), and in our own admiralty law a rule of comparative negligence has long been applied with no untoward difficulties in personal injury actions.  See, e. g., Pope & Talbot, Inc. v. Hawn, <citedDecision>346 U. S. 406, 409</citedDecision> .  See also Merchant Marine (Jones) Act, 38 Stat. 1185 , as amended, 41 Stat. 1007 , 46 U. S. C. § 688 ; Death on the High Seas Act, 41 Stat. 537 , 46 U. S. C. § 766 .  The argument has also been made that the divided damages rule promotes out-of-court settlements, because when it becomes apparent that both vessels are at fault, *408 both parties can readily agree to divide the damages— thus avoiding the expense and delay of prolonged litigation and the concomitant burden on the courts.  It would be far more difficult, it is argued, for the parties to agree on who was more at fault and to apportion damages accordingly.  But the argument is hardly persuasive.  For if the fault of the two parties is markedly disproportionate, it is in the interest of the slightly negligent party to litigate the controversy in the hope that the major-minor fault rule may eventually persuade a court to absolve it of all liability.  And if, on the other hand, it appears after a realistic assessment of the situation that the fault of both parties is roughly equal, then there is no reason why a rule that apportions damages would be any less likely to induce a settlement than a rule that always divides damages equally.