**Combined Opinion**
 The reasons that originally led to the Court’s adoption of the rule have long since disappeared.  The rule has been repeatedly criticized by experienced federal judges who have cor *411 rectly pointed out that the result it works has too often been precisely the opposite of what the Court sought to achieve in The Schooner Catharine — the “just and equitable” allocation of damages.  And worldwide experience has taught that that goal can be more nearly realized by a standard that allocates liability for damages according to comparative fault whenever possible.  We hold that when two or more parties have contributed by their fault to cause property damage in a maritime collision or stranding, liability for such damage is to be allocated among the parties proportionately to the comparative degree of their fault, and that liability for such damages is to be allocated equally only when the parties are equally at fault or when it is not possible fairly to measure the comparative degree of their fault.  Accordingly, the judgment before us is vacated and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.  It is so ordered.  1 The operation of the rule was described in The Sapphire, <citedDecision>18 Wall. 51</citedDecision> , 56: “It is undoubtedly the rule in admiralty that where both vessels are in fault the sums representing the damage sustained by each must be added together and the aggregate divided between the two.  This is in effect deducting the lesser from the greater and dividing the remainder.  ... If one in fault has sustained no injury, it is liable for half the damages sustained by the other, though that other was also in fault.” Similarly, in The North Star, 106 U. S. 17, 22 , the rule was thus stated: “[According to the general maritime law, in cases of collision occurring by the fault of both parties, the entire damage to both ships is added together in one common mass and equally divided between them, and thereupon arises a liability of one party to pay to the other such sum as is necessary to equalize the burden.” See also, e. g., White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., 258 U. S. 341 ; The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466 .  It has long been settled that the divided damages rule applies not only in cases of collision between two vessels, but also in cases like this one where a vessel partly at fault is damaged in collision or grounding because of the mutual contributing fault of a nonvessel party.  Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389 (barge struck pier because of mutual fault of barge and of pier owner); White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., supra (steamship ran aground in canal because of joint negligence of steamship and canal company).  See also G. Gilmore & C. Black, The Law of Admiralty §7-17, pp. 522-523 (2d ed. 1975).  2 The Government’s petition for certiorari presented the single question whether the admiralty rule of equally divided damages should be replaced by the rule of damages in proportion to fault.