**Dissenting Opinion**
 Most obviously unavailable to support any kind of special scrutiny in this case, is a history or pattern of past discrimination, such as was relied on by the plurality in Frontiero to support its invocation of strict scrutiny.  There is no suggestion in the Court’s opinion that males in this age group are in any way peculiarly disadvantaged, subject to systematic discriminatory treatment, or otherwise in need of special solicitude from the courts.  The Court does not discuss the nature of the right involved, and there is no reason to believe that it sees the purchase of 3.2% beer as implicating any important interest, let alone one that is “fundamental” in the constitutional sense of invoking strict scrutiny.  Indeed, the Court’s accurate observation that the statute affects the selling but not the drinking of 3.2% beer, ante, at 204, further emphasizes the limited effect that it has on even those persons in the age group involved.  There is, in sum, nothing about the statutory classification involved here to suggest that it affects an interest, or works against a group, which can claim under the Equal Protection Clause that it is entitled to special judicial protection.  It is true that a number of our opinions contain broadly phrased dicta implying that the same test should be applied to all classifications based on sex, whether affecting females or males.  E. g., Frontiero v. Richardson, supra, at 688; Reed v. Reed, <citedDecision>404 U. S. 71, 76</citedDecision> (1971).  However, before today, no decision of this Court has applied an elevated level of scrutiny to invalidate a statutory discrimination harmful to males, except where the statute impaired an important personal interest protected by the Constitution.  1 There being no such interest *220 here, and there being no plausible argument that this is a discrimination against .females, 2 the Court’s reliance on our previous sex-discrimination cases is ill-founded.  It treats gender classification as a talisman which — without regard to the rights involved or the persons affected- — calls into effect a heavier burden of judicial review.  The Court’s conclusion that a law which treats males less favorably than females "must serve important governmental objectives and must be substantially related to achievement of those objectives” apparently comes out of thin air.  The Equal Protection Clause contains no such language, and none of our previous cases adopt that standard.  I would think we have had enough difficulty with the two standards of review which our cases have recognized — the *221 norm of “rational basis,” and the “compelling state interest” required where a “suspect classification” is involved — so as to counsel weightily against the insertion of still another “standard” between those two.