**Dissenting Opinion**
 The clearest demonstration of this is the fact that the precise argument made by the Court would be equally applicable to a flat bar on such purchases by anyone, male or female, in the 18-20 age group; in fact it would apply a fortiori in that case given the even more “tenuous 'fit’ ” between drunk-driving arrests and femaleness.  The statistics indicate that about 1 % of the age group population as a whole is arrested.  What the Court’s argument is relevant to is not equal protection, but due process — whether there are enough persons in the category who drive while drunk to justify a bar against purchases by all members of the group.  Cast in those terms, the argument carries little weight, in light of our decisions indicating that such questions call for a balance of the State’s interest against the harm resulting from any overinclusiveness or underinclusiveness.  Vlandis v. Kline, 412 U. S. 441, 448-452 (1973).  The personal interest harmed *227 here is very minor — the present legislation implicates only the right to purchase 3.2% beer, certainly a far cry from the important personal interests which have on occasion supported this Court’s invalidation of statutes on similar reasoning.  Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur, 414 U. S. 632, 640 (1974); Stanley v. Illinois, <citedDecision>405 U. S. 645, 651</citedDecision> (1972).  And the state interest involved is significant — the prevention of injury and death on the highways.  This is not a case where the classification can only be justified on grounds of administrative convenience.  Vlandis v. Kline, supra, at 451 ; <citedDecision>Stanley</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Illinois, supra, at 656</citedDecision> .  There being no apparent way to single out persons likely to drink and drive, it seems plain that the legislature was faced here with the not atypical legislative problem of legislating in terms of broad categories with regard to the purchase and consumption of alcohol.  I trust, especially in light of the Twenty-first Amendment, that there would be no due process violation if no one in this age group were allowed to purchase 3.2% beer.  Since males drink and drive at a higher rate than the age group as a whole, I fail to see how a statutory bar with regard only to them can create any due process problem.  The Oklahoma Legislature could have believed that 18-20-year-old males drive substantially more, and tend more often to be intoxicated than their female counterparts; that they prefer beer and admit to drinking and driving at a higher rate than females; and that they suffer traffic injuries out of proportion to the part they make up of the population.  Under the appropriate rational-basis test for equal protection, it is neither irrational nor arbitrary to bar them from making purchases of 3.2% beer, which purchases might in many cases be made by a young man who immediately returns to his vehicle with the beverage in his possession.  The record does not give any good indication of the true proportion of males in the age group who drink and drive (ex *228 cept that it is no doubt greater than the 2% who are arrested), but whatever it may be I cannot see that the mere purchase right involved could conceivably raise a due process question.  There being no violation of either equal protection or due process, the statute should accordingly be upheld.  In Stanley v. Illinois, <citedDecision>405 U. S. 645</citedDecision> (1972), the Court struck down a statute allowing separation of illegitimate children from a surviving father *220 but not a surviving mother, without any showing of parental unfitness.  The Court stated that “the interest of a parent in the companionship, care, custody, and management of his or her children ‘eome[s] to this Court with a momentum for respect lacking when appeal is made to liberties which derive merely from shifting economic arrangements.’ ” In Kahn v. Shevin, 416 U. S. 351 (1974), the Court upheld Florida’s $500 property tax exemption for widows only.  The opinion of the Court appears to apply a rational-basis test, id., at 355 , and is so understood by the dissenters.  Id., at 357 (Brennan, J., joined by Marshall, J., dissenting).  In Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636 (1975), the Court invalidated § 202 (g) of the Social Security Act, which allowed benefits to mothers but not fathers of minor children, who survive the wage earner.  This statute was treated, in the opinion of the Court, as a discrimination against female wage earners, on the ground that it minimizes the financial security which their work efforts provide for their families.  420 U. S., at 645 .