**Dissenting Opinion**
Mr. Justice Rehnquist, dissenting.  The Court’s disposition of this case is objectionable on two grounds.  First is its conclusion that men challenging a gender-based statute which treats them less favorably than women may invoke a more stringent standard of judicial review than pertains to most other types of classifications.  Second is the Court’s enunciation of this standard, without citation to any source, as being that “classifications by gender must serve important governmental objectives and must be substantially related to achievement of those objectives.” Ante, at 197 (emphasis added).  .  The only redeeming feature of the Court’s opinion, to my mind, is that it apparently signals a retreat by those who joined the plurality opinion in Frontiero v. Richardson, <citedDecision>411 U. S. 677</citedDecision> (1973), from their view that sex is a “suspect” classification for purposes of equal protection analysis.  I think the Oklahoma statute challenged here need pass only the “rational basis” equal *218 protection analysis expounded in cases such as McGowan v. Maryland, 366 U. S. 420 (1961), and Williamson v. Lee Optical Co., 348 U. S. 483 (1955), and I believe that it is constitutional under that analysis.  I In <citedDecision>Frontiero</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Richardson, supra,</citedDecision> the opinion for the plurality sets forth the reasons of four Justices for concluding that sex should be regarded as a suspect classification for purposes of equal protection analysis.  These reasons center on our Nation’s “long and unfortunate history of sex discrimination,” <citedDecision>411 U. S., at 684</citedDecision> , which has been reflected in a whole range of restrictions on the legal rights of women, not the least of which have concerned the ownership of property and participation in the electoral process.  Noting that the pervasive and persistent nature of the discrimination experienced by women is in part the result of their ready identifiability, the plurality rested its invocation of strict scrutiny largely upon the fact that “statutory distinctions between the sexes often have the effect of invidiously relegating the entire class of females to inferior legal status without regard to the actual capabilities of its individual members.” <citedDecision>Id., at 686-687</citedDecision> .  See Stanton v. Stanton, 421 U. S. 7, 14-15 (1975).  Subsequent to <citedDecision>Frontiero</citedDecision> , the Court has declined to hold that sex is a suspect class, Stanton v. Stanton, supra, at 13 , and no such holding is imported by the Court’s resolution of this case. However, the Court’s application here of an elevated or “intermediate” level scrutiny, like that invoked in cases dealing with discrimination against females, raises the question of why the statute here should be treated any differently from countless legislative classifications unrelated to sex which have been upheld under a minimum rationality standard.  Jefferson v. Hackney, 406 U. S. 535, 546-547 (1972); Richardson v. Belcher, 404 U. S. 78, 81-84 (1971); Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471, 484-485 (1970); *219 McGowan v. Maryland, supra, at 425-426 ; Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U. S. 603, 611 (1960); Williamson v. Lee Optical Co., supra, at 488-489.  Most obviously unavailable to support any kind of special scrutiny in this case, is a history or pattern of past discrimination, such as was relied on by the plurality in <citedDecision>Frontiero</citedDecision> to support its invocation of strict scrutiny.  There is no suggestion in the Court’s opinion that males in this age group are in any way peculiarly disadvantaged, subject to systematic discriminatory treatment, or otherwise in need of special solicitude from the courts.  The Court does not discuss the nature of the right involved, and there is no reason to believe that it sees the purchase of 3.2% beer as implicating any important interest, let alone one that is “fundamental” in the constitutional sense of invoking strict scrutiny.  Indeed, the Court’s accurate observation that the statute affects the selling but not the drinking of 3.2% beer, ante, at 204, further emphasizes the limited effect that it has on even those persons in the age group involved.  There is, in sum, nothing about the statutory classification involved here to suggest that it affects an interest, or works against a group, which can claim under the Equal Protection Clause that it is entitled to special judicial protection.  It is true that a number of our opinions contain broadly phrased dicta implying that the same test should be applied to all classifications based on sex, whether affecting females or males.  E. g., Frontiero v. Richardson, supra, at 688; Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71, 76 (1971).