**Dissenting Opinion**
 Of course, it may be that these statements are intended as no more than observations as to the popular demands that it is thought must be responded to in order to prevent anarchy.  But the implication of the statements appears to me to be quite different — namely, that society’s judgment that the murderer “deserves” death must be respected not simply because the preservation of order requires it, but because it is appropriate that society make the judgment and carry it out.  It is this latter notion, in particular, that I consider to be fundamentally at odds with the Eighth Amendment.  See Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S., at 343-345 (Marshall, J., concurring).  The mere fact that the community demands the murderer’s life in return for the evil he has done cannot sustain the death penalty, for as Justices Stewart, Powell, and Stevens remind us, “the Eighth Amendment demands more than that a challenged punishment be acceptable to contemporary society.” Ante, at 182.  To be sustained under the Eighth Amendment, the death penalty must “eompor[t] with the basic concept of human dignity at the core of the Amendment,” ibid.; the objective in imposing it must be “[consistent] with our respect for the dignity of [other] men.” Ante, at 183.  See Trop v. Dulles, <citedDecision>356 U. S. 86, 100</citedDecision> (1958) (plurality opinion).  Under these standards, the taking of life “because the wrongdoer deserves it” surely must *241 fall, for such a punishment has as its very basis the total denial of the wrongdoer’s dignity and worth.  19 The death penalty, unnecessary to promote the goal of deterrence or to further any legitimate notion of retribution, is an excessive penalty forbidden by the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments.  I respectfully dissent from the Court’s judgment upholding the sentences of death imposed upon the petitioners in these cases. [This opinion applies also to No. 75-5706, Proffitt v. Florida, post, p. 242, and No. 75-5394, Jurek v. Texas, post, p. 262.] Sarat & Vidmar, Public Opinion, The Death Penalty, and the Eighth Amendment: Testing the Marshall Hypothesis, 1976 Wis. L. Rev. 171 .  See e. g., T. Sellin, The Death Penalty, A Report for the Model Penal Code Project of the American Law Institute (1959).  United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Capital Punishment, pt. II, ¶ 159, p. 123 (1968).