**Lead Opinion**
 In Fry, supra, the Court recognized that an express declaration of this limitation is found in the Tenth Amendment: “While the Tenth Amendment has been characterized as a 'truism/ stating merely that 'all is retained which has not been surrendered,' United States v. *843 Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 124 (1941), it is not without significance.  The Amendment expressly declares the constitutional policy that Congress may not exercise power in a fashion that impairs the States’ integrity or their ability to function effectively in a federal system.” 421 U. S., at 547 n. 7.  In New York v. United States, 326 U. S. 572 (1946), Mr. Chief Justice Stone, speaking for four Members of an eight-Member Court 13 in rejecting the proposition that Congress could impose taxes on the States so long as it did so in a nondiscriminatory manner, observed: “A State may, like a private individual, own real property and receive income.  But in view of our former decisions we could hardly say that a general non-discriminatory real estate tax (apportioned), or an income tax laid upon citizens and States alike could be constitutionally applied to the State’s capitol, its State-house, its public school houses, public parks, or its revenues from taxes or school lands, even though all real property and all income of the citizen .is taxed.” Id., at 587-588 .  14 *844 The expressions in these more recent cases trace back to earlier decisions of this Court recognizing the essential role of the States in our federal system of government.  Mr. Chief Justice Chase, perhaps because of the particular time at which he occupied that office, had occasion more than once to speak for the Court on this point.  In Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725 (1869), he declared that “[t]he Constitution, in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States.” In Lane County v. Oregon, <citedDecision>7 Wall. 71</citedDecision> (1869), his opinion for the Court said: “Both the States and the United States existed before the Constitution.  The people, through that instrument, established a more perfect union by substituting a national government, acting, with ample power, directly upon the citizens, instead of the Confederate government, which acted with powers, greatly restricted, only upon the States.  But in many articles of the Constitution the necessary existence of the States, and, within their proper spheres, the independent authority of the States, is distinctly recognized.” <citedDecision>Id., at 76</citedDecision> .  In Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514 (1926), the Court likewise observed that “neither government may destroy the other nor curtail in any substantial manner the exercise of its powers.” Id., at 523 .  Appellee Secretary argues that the cases in which this Court has upheld sweeping exercises of authority by Congress, even though those exercises pre-empted state regu *845 lation of the private sector, have already curtailed the sovereignty of the States quite as much as the 1974 amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act.  We do not agree.  It is one thing to recognize the authority of Congress to enact laws regulating individual businesses necessarily subject to the dual sovereignty of the government of the Nation and of the State in which they reside.  It is quite another to uphold a similar exercise of congressional authority directed, not to private citizens, but to the States as States.  We have repeatedly recognized that there are attributes of sovereignty attaching to every state government which may not be impaired by Congress, not because Congress may lack an affirmative grant of legislative authority to reach the matter, but because the Constitution prohibits it from exercising the authority in that manner.  In Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559 (1911), the Court gave this example of such an attribute: “The power to locate its own seat of government and to determine when and how it shall be changed from one place to another, and to appropriate its own public funds for that purpose, are essentially and peculiarly state powers.  That one of the original thirteen States could now be shorn of such powers by an act of Congress would not be for a moment entertained.” Id., at 565 .  One undoubted attribute of state sovereignty is the States’ power to determine the wages which shall be paid to those whom they employ in order to carry out their governmental functions, what hours those persons will work, and what compensation will be provided where these employees may be called upon to work overtime.  The question we must resolve here, then, is whether these determinations are “ 'functions essential to separate and independent existence,’ ” id., at 580 , quoting from <citedDecision>Lane County</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Oregon, supra, at 76</citedDecision> , so that Congress *846 may not abrogate the States’ otherwise plenary authority to make them.  In their complaint appellants advanced estimates of substantial costs which will be imposed upon them by the 1974 amendments.  Since the District Court dismissed their complaint, we take its well-pleaded allegations as true, although it appears from appellee’s submissions in the District Court and in this Court that resolution of the factual disputes as to the effect of the amendments is not critical to our disposition of the case. Judged solely in terms of increased costs in dollars, these allegations show a significant impact on the functioning of the governmental bodies involved.  The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, Tenn., for example, asserted that the Act will increase its costs of providing essential police and fire protection, without any increase in service or in current salary levels, by $938,000 per year.  Cape Girardeau, Mo., estimated that its annual budget for fire protection may have to be increased by anywhere from $250,000 to $400,000 over the current figure of $350,000.  The State of Arizona alleged that the annual additional expenditures which will be required if it is to continue to provide essential state services may total $2.5 million.  The State of California, which must devote significant portions of its budget to fire-suppression endeavors, estimated that application of the Act to its employment practices will necessitate an increase in its budget of between $8 million and $16 million.