**Concurrence Opinion**
 Yet only a month after Chaplinsky , and without reference to that decision, the Court stated in Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52, 54 , that “the Constitution imposes no such restraint on government as respects purely commercial advertising.” For more than 30 years this “casual, almost offhand” statement in Chrestensen has operated to exclude commercial speech from the protection afforded by the First Amendment to other types of communication.  Cammarano v. United States, 358 U. S. 498, 514 (Douglas, J., concurring).  1 Today the Court ends the anomalous situation created by Chrestensen and holds that a communication which does no more than propose a commercial transaction is not “wholly outside the protection of the First Amendment.” Ante, at 761.  But since it is a cardinal principle of the First Amendment that “government has no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content,” 2 the Court's decision calls into immediate question the constitutional legitimacy of every state and federal law regulating false or deceptive advertising.  I write separately to explain why I think today’s decision does not preclude such governmental regulation.  *777 The Court has on several occasions addressed the problem posed by false statements of fact in libel cases. Those cases demonstrate that even with respect to expression at the core of the First Amendment, the Constitution does not provide absolute protection for false factual statements that cause private injury.  In Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U. S. 323, 340 , the Court concluded that “there is no constitutional value in false statements of fact.” As the Court had previously recognized in New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, <citedDecision>376 U. S. 254</citedDecision> , however, factual errors are inevitable in free debate, and the imposition of liability for erroneous factual assertions can “dampe[n] the vigor and limi[t] the variety of public debate” by inducing “self-censorship.” <citedDecision>Id., at 279</citedDecision> .  In order to provide ample “breathing space” for free expression, the Constitution places substantial limitations on the discretion of government to permit recovery for libelous communications.  See Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., supra, at 347-349.  The principles recognized in the libel decisions suggest that government may take broader action to protect the public from injury produced by false or deceptive price or product advertising than from harm caused by defamation.  In contrast to the press, which must often attempt to assemble the true facts from sketchy and sometimes conflicting sources under the pressure of publication deadlines, the commercial advertiser generally knows the product or service he seeks to sell and is in a position to verify the accuracy of his factual representations before he disseminates them.  The advertiser’s access to the truth about his product and its price substantially eliminates any danger that governmental regulation of false or misleading price or product advertising will chill accurate and nondeceptive commercial expression.  There *778 is, therefore, little need to sanction “some falsehood in order to protect speech that matters.” Id., at 341 .