**Lead Opinion**
 For the most part, the distributors functioned as traditional wholesalers with respect to these sales, stocking an inventory of bicycles owned by them to supply retailers with emergency and “fill-in” requirements.  A smaller part of the bicycles that were physically distributed by the distributors were covered by consignment and agency arrangements that had been developed to deal with particular problems of certain distributors.  Distributors acquired title only to those bicycles that they purchased as wholesalers; retailers, of course, acquired title to all of the bicycles ordered by them.  In the District Court, the United States charged a continuing conspiracy by Schwinn and other alleged co-conspirators to fix prices, allocate exclusive territories to distributors, and confine Schwinn bicycles to franchised retailers.  Relying on United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707 (1944), the Government argued that the nonprice restrictions were per se illegal as part of a scheme for fixing the retail prices of Schwinn bicycles.  The District Court rejected the price-fixing allegation because of -a failure of proof and held that Schwinn’s limitation of retail bicycle sales to franchised retailers was permissible under § 1.  The court found a § 1 violation, however, in “a conspiracy to divide certain borderline or overlapping counties in the territories served by four Midwestern *44 cycle distributors.” <citedDecision>237 F. Supp. 323, 342</citedDecision> (ND Ill. 1965).  The court described the violation as a “division of territory-by agreement between the distributors .  .  .  horizontal in nature,” and held that Schwinn’s participation did not change that basic characteristic.  <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> The District Court limited its injunction to apply only to the territorial restrictions on the resale of bicycles purchased by the distributors in their roles as wholesalers.  <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> Schwinn came to this Court on appeal by the United States from the District Court’s decision.  Abandoning its per se theories, the Government argued that Schwinn’s prohibition against distributors’ and retailers’ selling Schwinn bicycles to nonfranchised retailers was unreasonable under § 1 and that the District Court’s injunction against exclusive distributor territories should extend to all such restrictions regardless of the form of the transaction.  The Government did not challenge the District Court’s decision on price fixing, and Schwinn did not challenge the decision on exclusive distributor territories.  The Court acknowledged the Government’s abandonment of its per se theories and stated that the resolution of the case would require an examination of “the specifics of the challenged practices and their impact upon the marketplace in order to make a judgment as to whether the restraint is or is not 'reasonable’ in the special sense in which § 1 of the Sherman Act must be read for purposes of this type of inquiry.” 388 U. S., at 374 .  Despite this description of its task, the Court proceeded to articulate the following “bright line” per se rule of illegality for vertical restrictions: “Under the Sherman Act, it is unreasonable without more for a manufacturer to seek to restrict and confine areas or persons with whom an article may be traded after the manufacturer has parted with dominion over it.” Id., at 379 .  But the Court expressly stated that the rule of reason governs when “the manufacturer retains title, dominion, and risk with *45 respect to the product and the position and function of the dealer in question are, in fact, indistinguishable from those of an agent or salesman of the manufacturer.” Id., at 380 .  Application of these principles to the facts of Schwinn produced sharply contrasting results depending upon the role played by the distributor in the distribution system.