**Dissenting Opinion**
 .  vested according to the laws of the United States.” In Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661 (1891), 9 the Court held that it would construe federal grants of lands bordering navigable but nontidal waters as reaching only to the edge *389 of the stream.  As it did in Wilcox , the Court in Packer noted that state law governs property once it has passed from the hands of the Federal Government.  But the Packer Court, like its predecessor, also noted that the influence of state law is “subject to the condition that [state] rules do not impair the efficacy of the [federal] grants or the use and enjoyment of the property by the grantee.” 137 U. S., at 669 .  Today’s holding, which allows States to divest federally granted lands of their valuable quality of being riparian simply by refusing to recognize the titleholders’ common-law rights, obviously removes this fundamental limitation on state power.  The Court also attempts to draw support from cases which affirm the proposition that the riparian title passed by a federal grant conveys title only to the water’s edge, not to the middle of the stream.  Barney v. Keokuk, <citedDecision>94 U. S. 324</citedDecision> (1877), 10 was a controversy over the ownership of land created when the city of Keokuk filled in land below the ordinary high-water mark.  The plaintiff claimed title to the new land by virtue of his asserted ownership of the adjacent upland.  The Court noted that “[i]t is generally conceded that the riparian title attaches to subsequent accretions to the land effected by the gradual and imperceptible operation of natural causes.” <citedDecision>Id., at 337</citedDecision> .  Whether the same rule applied to land created out of the bed of the river, however, the Court considered a question of state law. The reason for this, as the Court explained, is that the riparian rights granted by the Federal Government extended only to the water’s edge; if the States wish to grant the riparian owner rights beyond that point, they may do so at their own discretion.  See <citedDecision>id., at 338</citedDecision> .  The Court transforms this conclusion that the States may, if they wish, enlarge the title granted by the Federal Government into support for the proposition that the States *390 may also restrict that title.  The transformation is impressive, but it is not logical.  The issue before the Court in Shively v. Bowlby, supra, was the title to land below the high-water mark of the Columbia River in Oregon.  Shively claimed under a prestatehood grant from the United States, while Bowlby based his title on a subsequent grant from the State of Oregon.  The Court held for Bowlby, finding that although Congress could have granted Shively title to the land he claimed, 11 it had not done so, nor had the State.  152 U. S., at 48-57 .