**Lead Opinion**
 We recognized as much in Bonelli, see 414 U. S., at 318 , and our references to the Act in Bonelli in no way indicate that it was the Act, rather than the scope of the equal-footing doctrine, which resulted in our application of federal common law: “Since the Act does not extend to the States any interest beyond those afforded by the equal-footing doctrine, the State can no more base its claim to lands unnecessary to a navigational purpose on the Submerged Lands Act than on that doctrine.” Id., at 324r-325.  The compact entered into when Alabama was admitted to the Union contained the following language: “‘[A]ll navigable waters within the said state shall for ever remain public highways, free to the citizens of said state, and of the United States, without any tax, duty, impost, or toll therefor, imposed by the said state.’.  .  .” 3 How., at 229 .  The Court found that this language merely enunciated Congress’ right to regulate commerce upon the navigable waters, similarly reserved to it with respect to the original States, and thus the language did not detract from the State’s absolute title in the bed.  Id., at 229-230 .  Amici Utah and New Mexico also urge us to reconsider our decision in Hughes v. Washington, <citedDecision>389 U. S. 290</citedDecision> (1967).  They advance the same reasons for such reconsideration as they do with respect to Bonelli.  But <citedDecision>Hughes</citedDecision> was not cited by the Oregon courts below, and in Bonelli we expressly declined to rely upon it as a basis for our decision there, see 414 U. S., at 321 n. 11.  We therefore have no occasion to address the issue.  We are aware of the fact that <citedDecision>Hughes</citedDecision> gave to Borax the same sort of expansive construction as did Bonelli, but we are likewise aware that <citedDecision>Hughes</citedDecision> dealt with oeeanfront property, a fact which the Court thought sufficiently different from the usual situation so as to justify a “federal common law” rule of riparian proprietorship: “The rule deals with waters that lap both the lands of the State and the boundaries of the international sea.  This relationship, at this particular point of the marginal sea, is too close to the vital interest of the Nation in its own boundaries to allow it to be governed by any law but the 'supreme Law of the Land.’ ” <citedDecision>389 U. S., at 293</citedDecision> .  We are fortified in our conclusion that Bonelli’s equal-footing analysis was unsound by the fact that its author has likewise rejected it.  The dissenting opinion of our Brother Marshall, post, p. 382, would sustain the result reached in Bonelli but on a ground explicitly avoided in the Bonelli opinion.  The "mystery” or "puzzle” to which our Brother refers, post, at 384, turns out to be nonexistent; in rejecting Bonelli’s equal-footing analysis, we are simply refusing to be more Roman than the Romans.  The dissent’s own abandonment of Bonelli’s ratio decidendi is anything but a ringing endorsement of the rule of stare decisis.  We think that the insistence of our dissenting Brethren that “federal common law” should be applied to a determination of title in this case, albeit not for the same reason expounded in Bonelli, misapprehends the meaning and significance of the term “common law” as it is used in several of our old cases. In the generic sense of the term, the “common law” has been defined as: “ ‘the body of those principles and rules of action, relating to the government and security of persons and property, which derive their authority solely from usages and customs of immemorial antiquity, or from the judgments and decrees of the courts recognizing, affirming and enforcing such usages and customs; and, in this sense, particularly the ancient unwritten law of England.’ ” Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 92, 102 (1901) (citing Black’s Law Dictionary).  It is in this descriptive sense that the term is used in the two principal quotations relied upon in the dissenting opinion, New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662 , 717 (1836), and County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 68 (1874).