**Dissenting Opinion**
 Similarly, in Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1 (1894), 6 the Court said: “The rule, everywhere admitted, that where the land encroaches upon the water by gradual and imperceptible degrees, the accretion or alluvion belongs to the owner of the land, is equally applicable to lands bounding on tide waters or on fresh waters, and to the King or the State as to private persons; and is independent of the law governing the title in the soil covered by the water.” Id., at 35 (emphasis added).  Thus, the right to such additions 7 was part of the title which passed with the federal grant, cf. 3 American Law of Property § 15.27, p. 859 (A. J. Casner ed. 1952), and was protected by federal law. By holding that state law now governs the impact of changes in the course of the bordering water on a federal riparian grant, the Court denies that “a question which concerns the validity and effect of an act done by the United States” is “necessarily a federal question.” Borax, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10, 22 (1935).  As far as federal law is concerned, a federal riparian grant *388 is now understood to have incorporated a fixed rather than ambulatory boundary.  Ante, at 376.  The rule of New Orleans v. United States, supra, and County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, supra, is discarded along with Bonelli and Hughes .  The cases the Court concludes compel this dramatic shift do not even support it.  Wilcox v. Jackson, <citedDecision>13 Pet. 498</citedDecision> (1839), 8 was an action of ejectment brought against the commander of a United States military post to recover part of the post.  The plaintiff claimed under a state registration certificate.  As the majority notes, the Court rejected that argument with the following language: “We hold the true principle to be this, that whenever the question in any Court, state or federal, is, whether a title to land which had once been the property of the United States has passed, that question must be resolved by the laws of the United States; but that whenever, according to those laws, the title shall have passed, then that property, like all other property in the state, is subject to state legislation; so far as that legislation is consistent with the admission that the title passed and vested according to the laws of the United States.” Id., at 517 (emphasis added).  The italicized language, on which the majority opinion makes no comment, explains why state law cannot control this case. Denial of the riparian holder’s federal common-law rights to a changing boundary is not “consistent with the admission that the title .  .  .  vested according to the laws of the United States.” In Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661 (1891), 9 the Court held that it would construe federal grants of lands bordering navigable but nontidal waters as reaching only to the edge *389 of the stream.  As it did in <citedDecision>Wilcox</citedDecision> , the Court in Packer noted that state law governs property once it has passed from the hands of the Federal Government.  But the Packer Court, like its predecessor, also noted that the influence of state law is “subject to the condition that [state] rules do not impair the efficacy of the [federal] grants or the use and enjoyment of the property by the grantee.” 137 U. S., at 669 .  Today’s holding, which allows States to divest federally granted lands of their valuable quality of being riparian simply by refusing to recognize the titleholders’ common-law rights, obviously removes this fundamental limitation on state power.  The Court also attempts to draw support from cases which affirm the proposition that the riparian title passed by a federal grant conveys title only to the water’s edge, not to the middle of the stream.  Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324 (1877), 10 was a controversy over the ownership of land created when the city of Keokuk filled in land below the ordinary high-water mark.  The plaintiff claimed title to the new land by virtue of his asserted ownership of the adjacent upland.  The Court noted that “[i]t is generally conceded that the riparian title attaches to subsequent accretions to the land effected by the gradual and imperceptible operation of natural causes.” Id., at 337 .