**Dissenting Opinion**
 3 The major premise for the Court’s conclusion that the Government may appeal from the final judgment entered for respondent is that there is a difference of constitutional magnitude between “acquittals” and midtrial dismissals, entered on motion of the accused, on grounds “unrelated to factual innocence.” This premise is fatally flawed.  It, quite simply, misconceives the whole basis for the rule that “acquittals” bar retrials.  The reason for this rule is not, as the Court suggests, primarily to safeguard determinations of innocence; rather, it is that a retrial following a final judgment for the accused necessarily threatens intolerable interference with the constitutional policy against multiple trials.  Moreover, in terms of the practical operation of the adversary process, there is actually no difference between a so-called “true acquittal” and the termination in this case favorably to respondent.  A While the Double Jeopardy Clause often has the effect of protecting the accused’s interest in the finality of particular favorable determinations, this is not its objective.  For the Clause often permits Government appeals from final judgments favorable to the accused.  See United States v. Wilson, <citedDecision>420 U. S. 332</citedDecision> (1975) (whether or not final judgment was an acquittal, Government may appeal if reversal would not ne *105 cessitate a retrial).  The purpose of the Clause, which the Court today fails sufficiently to appreciate, is to protect the accused against the agony and risks attendant upon undergoing more than one criminal trial for any single offense.  See <citedDecision>ibid.</citedDecision> A retrial increases the financial and emotional burden that any criminal trial represents for the accused, prolongs the period of the unresolved accusation of -wrongdoing, and enhances the risk that an innocent defendant may be convicted.  4 See Arizona v. Washington, 434 U. S. 497, 503-504 (1978); Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187-188 (1957).  Society’s “willingness to limit the Government to a single criminal proceeding to vindicate its very vital interest in enforcement of criminal laws” bespeaks society’s recognition of the gross unfairness of requiring the accused to undergo the strain and agony of more than one trial for any single offense.  United States v. Jorn, 400 U. S. 470, 479 (1971) (opinion of Harlan, J.).  Accordingly, the policies of the Double Jeopardy Clause mandate that the Government be afforded but one complete opportunity to convict an accused and that when the first proceeding terminates in a final judgment favorable to the defendant 5 any retrial be barred.  The rule as to acquittals can only be understood as simply an application of this larger principle.  Judgments of acquittal normally result from jury or bench *106 verdicts of not guilty.  In such cases, the acquittal represents the factfinder’s conclusion that, under the controlling legal principles, the evidence does not establish that the defendant can be convicted of the offense charged in the indictment.  But the judgment does not necessarily establish the criminal defendant’s lack of criminal culpability; the acquittal may result from erroneous evidentiary rulings or erroneous interpretations of governing legal principles induced by the defense.  Yet the Double Jeopardy Clause bars a second trial. In repeatedly holding that the Government may not appeal from an acquittal if a reversal would necessitate a retrial, the Court has, of course, recognized that this rule impairs to some degree the Government’s interest in enforcing its criminal laws.  Yet, while we have acknowledged that permitting review of acquittals would avoid release of guilty defendants who benefited from “error, irrational behavior, or prejudice on the part of the trial judge,” United States v. Martin Linen Supply Co., 430 U. S., at 574 ; see United Statesv.  Wilson, supra, at 352, we nevertheless have consistently held that the Double Jeopardy Clause bars any appellate review in such circumstances.  The reason is not that the first trial established the defendant’s factual innocence, but rather that the second trial would present all the untoward consequences the Clause was designed to prevent.  The Government would be allowed to seek to persuade a second trier of fact of the defendant’s guilt, to strengthen any weaknesses in its first presentation, and to subject the defendant to the expense and anxiety of a second trial. See <citedDecision>ibid.</citedDecision> This basic principle of double jeopardy law has heretofore applied not only to acquittals based on the verdict of the fact-finder, but also to acquittals entered by the trial judge, following the presentation of evidence but before verdict, pursuant to Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 29.  See Sanabria v. United States, ante, p. 54; United States v. Martin Linen Supply Co., *107 supra; Fong Foo v. United States, 369 U. S. 141 (1962).  For however egregious the error of the acquittal, the termination favorable to the accused has been regarded as no different from a factfinder’s acquittal that resulted from errors of the trial judge. See also Burks v. United States, ante, p. 1.  These cases teach that the Government’s means of protecting its vital interest in convicting the guilty is its participation as an adversary at the criminal trial where it has every opportunity to dissuade the trial court from committing erroneous rulings favorable to the accused.  Jenkins was simply a necessary and logical extension of the rule that an acquittal bars any further trial proceedings.  Jenkins recognized that an acquittal can never represent a determination that the criminal defendant is innocent in any absolute sense; the bar to- a retrial following acquittal does not — and indeed could not — rest on any assumption that the finder of fact has applied the correct legal principles to all the admissible evidence and determined that the defendant was factually innocent of the offense charged.  The reason further prosecution is barred following an acquittal, rather, is that the Government has been afforded one complete opportunity to prove a case of the criminal defendant’s culpability and, when it has failed for any reason to persuade the court not to enter a final judgment favorable to the accused, the constitutional policies underlying the ban against multiple trials become compelling.