**Lead Opinion**
 That case arose out of a criminal prosecution in the Philippine Islands, to which the principles of the Double Jeopardy Clause had been expressly made applicable by Act of Congress.  Although the defendant had been acquitted in his original trial, traditional Philippine procedure provided for a trial de novo upon appeal.  This Court, in reversing the resulting conviction, remarked: “The court of first instance, having jurisdiction to try the question of the guilt or innocence of the accused, found Kepner not guilty; to try him again upon the merits, even *90 in an appellate court, is to put him a second time in jeopardy for the same offense .  .  .  .” Id., at 133 .  6 More than 50 years later, in Fong Foo v. United States, <citedDecision>369 U. S. 141</citedDecision> (1962), this Court reviewed the issuance of a writ of mandamus by the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit instructing a District Court to vacate certain judgments of acquittal.  Although indicating its agreement with the Court of Appeals that the judgments had been entered erroneously, this Court nonetheless held that a second trial was barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause.  <citedDecision>Id., at 143</citedDecision> .  Only last Term, this Court relied upon these precedents in United States v. Martin Linen Supply Co., 430 U. S. 564 (1977), and held that the Government could not appeal the granting of a motion to acquit pursuant to Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 29 where a second trial would be required upon remand.  The Court, quoting language in Ball, supra, at 671, stated: “Perhaps the most fundamental rule in the history of double jeopardy jurisprudence has been that '[a] verdict of acquittal .  .  .  could not be reviewed, on error or otherwise, without putting [a defendant] twice in jeopardy, and thereby violating the Constitution.’ ” 430 U. S., at 571 .  These, then, at least, are two venerable principles of double jeopardy jurisprudence.  The successful appeal of a judgment of conviction, on any ground other than the insufficiency of *91 the evidence to support the verdict, Burks v. United States, ante, p. 1, poses no bar to further prosecution on the same charge.  A judgment of acquittal, whether based on a jury-verdict of not guilty or on a ruling by the court that the evidence is insufficient to convict, may not be appealed and terminates the prosecution when a second trial would be necessitated by a reversal.  7 What may seem superficially to be a disparity in the rules governing a defendant’s liability to be tried again is explainable by reference to the underlying purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause.  As Kepner and <citedDecision>Fong Foo</citedDecision> illustrate, the law attaches particular significance to an acquittal.  To permit a second trial after an acquittal, however mistaken the acquittal may have been, would present an unacceptably high risk that the Government, with its vastly superior resources, might wear down the defendant so that "even though innocent he may be found guilty.” Oreen, 356' U. S., at 188.  On the other hand, to require a criminal defendant to stand trial again after he has successfully invoked a statutory right of appeal to upset his first conviction is not an act of governmental oppression of the sort against which the Double Jeopardy Clause was intended to protect.  The common sense of the matter is most pithily, if not most elegantly, expressed in the words of Mr. Justice McLean on circuit in United States v. Keen, 26 F. Cas. 686 (No. 15,510) *92 (CC Ind. 1839).  He vigorously rejected the view that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibited any new trial after the setting aside of a judgment of conviction against the defendant or that it “guarantees to him the right of being hung, to protect him from the danger of a second trial.” Id., at 690 .  Ill Although the primary purpose of the Double Jeopardy Clause was to protect the integrity of a final judgment, see Crist v. Bretz, ante, at 33, this Court has also developed a body of law guarding the separate but related interest of a defendant in avoiding multiple prosecutions even where no final determination of guilt or innocence has been made.  Such interests may be involved in two different situations: the first, in which the trial judge declares a mistrial; the second, in which the trial judge terminates the proceedings favorably to the defendant on a basis not related to factual guilt or innocence.