**Dissenting Opinion**
 In General Motors, the question before the Court was the validity of an unapportioned tax on the gross receipts of a corporation in interstate commerce.  The Court concluded that there was a sufficient nexus to uphold the tax. 377 U. S., at 448 .  See id., at 449-450 (BrenNAN, J., dissenting).  In Postal Telegraph-Cable Co., a telegraph company engaged in interstate commerce challenged both an annual license tax and an annual tax of $2 for each telegraph pole that the company maintained in the city of Richmond, Va. The Court sustained the validity of the license tax on the ground that it was simply a nondiscriminatory “exercise of the police power ... for revenue purposes.” 249 U. S., at 257 .  In contrast, the pole tax was subjected to stricter scrutiny; the Court stated that while interstate commerce must pay its way, the authority remains in the courts, “on proper application, to determine whether, under the conditions prevailing in a given case, the charge made is reasonably proportionate to the service to be rendered and the liabilities involved, or whether it is a disguised attempt to impose a burden on interstate commerce.” Id., at 260 .  The Court has continued to scrutinize carefully taxes on interstate commerce that are designed to reimburse the State for the particular costs imposed by that commerce.  See, e. g„ Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport Authority Dist. v. Delta Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S. 707 (1972); Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc., <citedDecision>306 U. S. 583</citedDecision> (1939); Ingels v. Morf, 300 U. S. 290 (1937).  In analyzing such taxes, it has required that there be factual evidence in the record that “the fees charged do not appear to be manifestly disproportionate to the services rendered.” Clark, <citedDecision>306 U. S., at 599</citedDecision> .  The Court concludes that this test has no bearing here because the Montana Supreme Court held that the coal severance tax was “ ‘imposed for the *648 general support of the government.’ ” Ante, at 621.  In fact, however, the matter is not nearly so clear as the Court suggests.  The Montana court also implied that the tax was designed at least in part to compensate the State for the special costs attributable to coal mining,-Mont., at-, -, 615 P. 2d, at 850, 855 , as have appellees here.  Brief for Appellees 1-3, 26-27.  Indeed, the stated objectives of the 1975 amendment were to: “(a) preserve or modestly increase revenues going to the general fund, (b) to respond to current social impacts attributable to coal development, and (c) to invest in the future, when new energy technologies reduce our dependence on coal and mining activity may decline.” Statement to Accompany the Report of the Free Joint Conference Committees on Coal Taxation 1 (1975).  Since the tax was designed only to “preserve or modestly increase” general revenues, it is appropriate for a court to inquire here whether the “surplus” revenue Montana has received from this severance tax is “manifestly disproportionate” to the present or future costs attributable to coal development.