**Dissenting Opinion**
 See, e. g., Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, 433 (1946).  Moreover, interstate commerce can be required to “pay its own way” in a narrower sense as well: the State may tax interstate commerce for the purpose of recovering those costs attributable to the activity itself.  See, e. g., Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252 (1919).  13 *648 The Court has never suggested, however, that interstate commerce may be required to pay more than its own way.  The Court today fails to recognize that the Commerce Clause does impose limits upon the State’s power to impose even facially neutral and properly apportioned taxes.  See ante, at 622-623.  In Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Co. v. Calvert, <citedDecision>347 U. S. 157, 163</citedDecision> (1954), Texas argued that no inquiry into the constitutionality of a facially neutral tax on the “taking” of gas was necessary because the State “has afforded great benefits and protection to pipeline companies.” The <citedDecision>Calvert</citedDecision> Court rejected this argument, holding that “these benefits are relevant here only to show that the essential requirements of due process have been met sufficiently to justify the imposition of any tax on the interstate activity.” <citedDecision>Id., at 163-164</citedDecision> .  The Court held, <citedDecision>id., at 164</citedDecision> , that when a tax is challenged on Commerce Clause grounds its validity “ ‘depends upon other considerations of constitutional policy having reference to the substantial effects, actual or potential, of the particular tax in suppressing or burdening unduly the commerce,’ ” quoting Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S., at 424 .  Accordingly, while *649 the Commerce Clause does not require that interstate commerce be placed in a privileged position, it does require that it not be unduly burdened.  In framing its taxing measures to reach interstate commerce, the State must be “at pains to do so in a manner which avoids the evils forbidden by the commerce clause and puts that commerce actually on a plane of equality with local trade in local taxation.” Nippert, 327 U. S., at 434 (emphasis added).  Thus, the Court has been particularly vigilant to review taxes that “single out interstate business,” since “[a]ny tailored tax of this sort creates an increased danger of error in apportionment, of discrimination against interstate commerce, and of a lack of relationship to the services provided by the State.” Complete Auto Transit, 430 U. S., at 288-289, n. 15 .  14 Moreover, the Court’s vigilance has not been limited to taxes that discriminate upon their face: “Not the tax in a vacuum of words, but its practical consequences for the doing of interstate commerce in applications to concrete facts are our concern.” Nippert, 327 U. S., at 431 .  See Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S., at 756 .  This is particularly true when the challenged tax, while facially neutral, falls so heavily upon interstate commerce that its burden “is not likely to be alleviated by those political restraints which are normally exerted on legislation where it affects adversely interests within the state.” McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33 , 46, n. 2 (1940).