**Dissenting Opinion**
 In my view, these cases appropriately recognize the traditional authority of a State over resources within its boundaries which are essential not only to the well-being but often to the very lives of its citizens.  In the exercise of this authority, a State may so regulate a natural resource as to preclude that resource from attaining the status of an “article of commerce” for the purposes of the negative- impact of the Commerce Clause.  It is difficult, if not impossible, to conclude that “commerce” exists in an item that cannot be reduced to possession under state law and in which the State recognizes only a usufructuary right.  “Commerce” cannot exist in a natural resource that cannot be sold, rented, traded, or transferred, but only used.  Of course, a State may not discriminate against interstate commerce when it regulates even such a resource.  If the State allows indiscriminate intrastate commercial dealings in a particular resource, it may have a difficult task proving that an outright prohibition on interstate commercial dealings is not such a discrimination.  I had thought that this was the basis for this Court’s decisions in Hughes v. Oklahoma, 441 U. S. 322 (1979), Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553 (1923), and West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., <citedDecision>221 U. S. 229</citedDecision> (1911).  In each case, the State permitted a natural resource to be reduced to private possession, permitted an intrastate market to exist in that resource, and either barred interstate commerce entirely or granted its residents a commercial preference.  1 *964 By contrast, Nebraska so regulates ground water that it cannot be said that the State permits any “commerce,” intrastate or interstate, to exist in this natural resource.  As with almost all of the Western States, Nebraska does- not recognize an absolute ownership interest in ground water, but grants landowners only a right to use ground water on the land from which it has been extracted.  Moreover, the landowner’s right to use ground water is limited.  Nebraska landowners may not extract ground water “in excess of a reasonable and beneficial use upon the land in which he owns, especially if such use is injurious to others who have substantial rights to the waters, and if the natural underground supply is insufficient for all owners, each is entitled to a reasonable proportion of the whole.” Olson v. City of Wahoo, 124 Neb. 802, 811 , 248 N. W. 304, 308 (1933).  With the exception of municipal water systems, Nebraska forbids any transportation of ground water off the land owned or controlled by the person who has appropriated the water from its subterranean source.