**Dissenting Opinion**
 The more rea *839 sonable presumption, if a presumption is to replace the defendant’s consent, is surely that the immediate search of a closed container will be a greater invasion of the defendant’s privacy interests than a mere temporary seizure of the container.  8 B Finally, the majority’s new rule is theoretically unsound and will create anomalous and unwarranted results.  These consequences are readily apparent from the Court’s attempt to reconcile its new rule with the holdings of Chadwick and Sanders.  9 The Court suggests that probable cause to search only a container does not justify a warrantless search of an automobile in which it is placed, absent reason to believe that the contents could be secreted elsewhere in the vehicle.  This, the majority asserts, is an indication that the new rule is carefully limited to its justification, and is not inconsistent with Chadwick and Sanders.  But why is such a container more private, less difficult for police to seize and store, or in any other relevant respect more properly subject to the war *840 rant requirement, than a container that police discover in a probable-cause search of an entire automobile?  10 This rule plainly has peculiar and unworkable consequences: the Government “must show that the investigating officer knew enough but not too much, that he had sufficient knowledge to establish probable cause but insufficient knowledge to know exactly where the contraband was located.” 210 U. S. App. D. C. 342, 384, <citedDecision>655 F. 2d 1159, 1201</citedDecision> (1981) (en banc) (Wilkey, J., dissenting).  Alternatively, the majority may be suggesting that Chadwick and Sanders may be explained because the connection of the container to the vehicle was incidental in these two cases. That is, because police had pre-existing probable cause to seize and search the containers, they were not entitled to wait until the item was placed in a vehicle to take advantage of the automobile exception.  Cf. Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U. S. 443 (1971); 2 W. LaFave, Search and Seizure 519-525 (1978).  I wholeheartedly agree that police cannot employ a pretext to escape Fourth Amendment prohibitions and cannot rely on an exigency that they could easily have avoided.  This interpretation, however, might well be an exception that swallows up the majority’s rule.  In neither Chadwick nor Sanders did the Court suggest that the delay of the police was a pretext for taking advantage of the automobile exception.  For all that appears, the Government may have had legitimate reasons for not searching as soon as they had probable cause.