**Lead Opinion**
 Every person who shall make any contract or engage in any combination or conspiracy hereby declared to be illegal shall be deemed guilty of a felony.” 26 Stat. 209 , as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 .  Under the arrangements condemned in Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 354 (1904) (plurality opinion), “all the stock [a railroad holding company] held or acquired in the constituent companies was acquired and held to be used in suppressing competition between those companies.  It came into existence only for that purpose.” In Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1 (1911), and United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106 (1911), the trust or holding company device brought together previously independent firms to lessen competition and achieve monopoly power.  Although the Court in the latter case suggested that the contracts between affiliated companies, and not merely the original combination, could be viewed as the conspiracy, id., at 184 , the Court left no doubt that “the combination in and of itself” was a restraint of trade and a monopolization, id., at 187 .  Contrary to the dissent’s suggestion, post, at 779, 788, n. 18, our point is not that Yellow Cab found only the initial acquisition illegal; our point is that the illegality of the initial acquisition was a predicate for its holding that any postacquisition conduct violated the Act.  When discussing the fact that some of the affiliated Chicago operating companies did not compete to obtain exclusive transportation contracts held by another of the affiliated companies, the Court stated: “[T]he fact that the competition restrained is that between affiliated corporations cannot serve to negative the statutory violation where, as here, the affiliation is assertedly one of the means of effectuating the illegal conspiracy not to compete.” 332 U. S., at 229 (emphasis added).  The passage quoted in text is soon followed by a cite to United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., <citedDecision>323 U. S. 173, 189</citedDecision> (1944).  Crescent Amusement found violations of §§ 1 and 2 by film exhibitors affiliated (in most cases) by 50 percent ownership.  The exhibitors used the monopoly power they possessed in certain towns to force film distributors to give them favorable terms in other towns.  The Court found it unnecessary to view the distributors as part of the conspiracy, id., at 183, so the Court plainly viewed the affiliated entities themselves as the conspirators.  The Crescent Amusement Court, however, in affirming an order of divestiture, noted that such a remedy was appropriate when “creation of the combination is itself the violation.” Id., at 189.  This suggests that both Crescent Amusement and Yellow Cab, which cited the very page on which this passage appears, stand for a narrow rule based on the original illegality of the affiliation.  The dissent misconstrues a later passage in Crescent Amusement stating that divestiture need not be limited to those affiliates whose “acquisition was part of the fruits of the conspiracy,” <citedDecision>323 U. S., at 189</citedDecision> .  See post, at 780-781.  This meant only that divestiture could apply to affiliates other than those who were driven out of business by the practices of the original conspirators and who were then acquired illegally to increase the combination’s monopoly power.  See <citedDecision>323 U. S., at 181</citedDecision> .  It did not mean that affiliates acquired for lawful purposes were subject to divestiture.  Appalachian Coals does state that the key question is whether there is an unreasonable restraint of trade or an attempt to monopolize.  “If there is, the combination cannot escape because it has chosen corporate form; and, if there is not, it is not to be condemned because of the absence of corporate integration.” 288 U. S., at 377 .  Appalachian Coals, however, validated a cooperative selling arrangement among independent entities.  The statement that intracorporate relationships would be subject to liability under § 1 is thus dictum.  The statement may also envision merely the limited rule in Yellow Cab pertaining to acquisitions that are themselves anticompetitive.