**Lead Opinion**
 At the close of the evidence, the court directed a verdict against petitioners on their counterclaims.  The disposition of these claims is not at issue before this Court. The jury was instructed to consider many different factors: for instance, whether Copperweld and Regal had separate management staffs, separate corporate officers, separate clients, separate records and bank accounts, separate corporate offices, autonomy in setting policy, and so on.  The jury also was instructed to consider “any other facts that you find are relevant to a determination of whether or not Copperweld and Regal are separate and distinct companies.” App. to Pet. for Cert. B-9.  Section 1 of the Sherman Act provides in pertinent part: “Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal.  Every person who shall make any contract or engage in any combination or conspiracy hereby declared to be illegal shall be deemed guilty of a felony.” 26 Stat. 209 , as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 .  Under the arrangements condemned in Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 354 (1904) (plurality opinion), “all the stock [a railroad holding company] held or acquired in the constituent companies was acquired and held to be used in suppressing competition between those companies.  It came into existence only for that purpose.” In Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1 (1911), and United States v. American Tobacco Co., <citedDecision>221 U. S. 106</citedDecision> (1911), the trust or holding company device brought together previously independent firms to lessen competition and achieve monopoly power.  Although the Court in the latter case suggested that the contracts between affiliated companies, and not merely the original combination, could be viewed as the conspiracy, <citedDecision>id., at 184</citedDecision> , the Court left no doubt that “the combination in and of itself” was a restraint of trade and a monopolization, <citedDecision>id., at 187</citedDecision> .  Contrary to the dissent’s suggestion, post, at 779, 788, n. 18, our point is not that Yellow Cab found only the initial acquisition illegal; our point is that the illegality of the initial acquisition was a predicate for its holding that any postacquisition conduct violated the Act.  When discussing the fact that some of the affiliated Chicago operating companies did not compete to obtain exclusive transportation contracts held by another of the affiliated companies, the Court stated: “[T]he fact that the competition restrained is that between affiliated corporations cannot serve to negative the statutory violation where, as here, the affiliation is assertedly one of the means of effectuating the illegal conspiracy not to compete.” 332 U. S., at 229 (emphasis added).  The passage quoted in text is soon followed by a cite to United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., 323 U. S. 173, 189 (1944).  Crescent Amusement found violations of §§ 1 and 2 by film exhibitors affiliated (in most cases) by 50 percent ownership.  The exhibitors used the monopoly power they possessed in certain towns to force film distributors to give them favorable terms in other towns.  The Court found it unnecessary to view the distributors as part of the conspiracy, id., at 183, so the Court plainly viewed the affiliated entities themselves as the conspirators.