**Combined Opinion**
 3 On the basis of his earlier acquittal, Mul-cahey asserted the defenses of res judicata and collateral es-toppel.  The United States District Court for the District of South Carolina struck Mulcahey’s defenses, reasoning that an in rem forfeiture proceeding under 18 U. S. C. § 924 (d) is remedial in nature and is therefore properly characterized as *357 a civil proceeding.  463 F. Supp. 365, 367 (1978).  The District Court then concluded that “the firearms here in question were involved in, used or intended to be used in violation of 18 U. S. C. § 922 (a)(1).  Such firearms are rendered subject to forfeiture under 18 U. S. C. § 924 (d), which forfeiture is hereby ordered.” 511 F. Supp. 133, 139 (1980).  B A divided United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, sitting en banc, reversed.  4 <citedDecision>685 F. 2d 913</citedDecision> (1982).  The en banc majority relied upon two theories for its conclusion that the forfeiture proceeding against these firearms was barred by Mulcahey’s prior acquittal, although it did not sharply distinguish between the two.  Because the majority considered the § 924(d) forfeiture proceeding to be criminal and punitive in nature, the Court of Appeals concluded that it was barred by double jeopardy principles.  Looking to Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S. 436 (1886), as authority, the Court of Appeals also determined that the forfeiture action was barred by collateral estoppel, because it was based upon the same facts as the earlier criminal action.  In dissent, four judges argued that neither collateral estoppel nor double jeopardy should preclude forfeiture proceedings brought under § 924(d).  <citedDecision>685 F.2d, at 918-919</citedDecision> (Winter, J., joined by Butzner, Russell, and Murnaghan, JJ., dissenting).  We granted certiorari, 459 U. S. 1199 (1983), and we reverse.  I In Coffey v. United States, supra, this Court held that a forfeiture action brought against certain distilling equipment was barred by the owner’s prior acquittal on charges of removing and concealing distilled spirits with the intent to defraud the revenue.  The Court stated: *358 “[W]here an issue raised as to the existence of the act or fact denounced has been tried in a criminal proceeding, instituted by the United States, and a judgment of acquittal has been rendered in favor of a particular person, that judgment is conclusive in favor of such person, on the subsequent trial of a suit in rem by the United States, where, as against him, the existence of the same act or fact is the matter in issue, as a cause for the forfeiture of the property prosecuted in such suit in rem. It is urged as a reason for not allowing such effect to the judgment, that the acquittal in the criminal case may have taken place because of the rule requiring guilt to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt, and that, on the same evidence, on the question of preponderance of proof, there might be a verdict for the United States, in the suit in rem. Nevertheless, the fact or act has been put in issue and determined against the United States; and all that is imposed by the statute, as a consequence of guilt, is a punishment therefor.  There could be no new trial of the criminal prosecution after the acquittal in it; and a subsequent trial of the civil suit amounts to substantially the same thing, with a difference only in the consequences following a judgment adverse to the claimant.” Id., at 443.  Although the language quoted above incorporates notions of both collateral estoppel and double jeopardy, the Coffey Court did not identify the precise legal foundation for the rule of preclusion it announced.  Perhaps for this reason, later decisions of this Court have reflected uncertainty as to the exact scope of the Coffey holding.