**Dissenting Opinion**
 With the abandonment of National League of Cities , all that stands between the remaining essentials of state sovereignty and Congress is the for self-restraint.  The problems of federalism in an integrated national economy are capable of more responsible resolution than holding that the States as States retain no status apart from that which Congress chooses to let them retain.  The proper resolution, I suggest, lies in weighing state autonomy as a factor in the balance when interpreting the means by which Congress can exercise its authority on the States as States.  It is insufficient, in assessing the validity of congressional regulation of a State pursuant to the commerce power, to ask only whether the same regulation would be valid if enforced against a private party.  That reasoning, embodied in the majority opinion, is inconsistent with the spirit of our Constitution.  It remains relevant that a State is being regulated, as National League of Cities and every recent case have recognized.  See EEOC v. Wyoming, supra; Transportation Union v. Long Island R. Co., <citedDecision>455 U. S. 678, 684</citedDecision> (1982); Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Recl.  Assn., 452 U. S. 264, 287-288 (1981); National League of Cities, 426 U. S., at 841-846 .  As far as the Constitution is concerned, a State should not be equated with any private litigant.  Cf. Nevada v. Hall, 440 U. S. 410, 428 (1979) (Blackmun, J., dissenting) (criticizing the ability of a state court to treat a sister State no differently than a private litigant).  Instead, the autonomy of a State is an essential component of federalism.  If state autonomy is ignored in assessing the means by which Congress regulates matters affecting commerce, then federalism becomes irrelevant simply because the set activities remaining beyond the reach of such a commerce power “may well be negligible.” Ante, at 545.  It has been difficult for this Court to craft bright fining the scope of the state autonomy protected by National *589 League of Cities.