**Dissenting Opinion**
 It is worth recalling the cited passage in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819), that lies at the source of the recent expansion of the commerce power.  “Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution,” Chief Justice Marshall said, “and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the constitution, are constitutional” (emphasis added).  The spirit of the Tenth Amendment, of course, is that the States will retain their integrity in a system in which the laws of the United States are nevertheless supreme.  Fry v. United States, supra, at 547, n. 7.  It is not enough that the “end be legitimate”; the means to that end chosen by Congress must not contravene the spirit of the Constitution.  Thus many of this Court’s decisions acknowledge that the means by which national power is exercised must take into account concerns for state autonomy.  See, e. g., Fry v. United States, supra, at 547, n. 7; New *586 York v. United States, <citedDecision>326 U. S. 572, 586-587</citedDecision> (1946) (Stone, C. J., concurring); NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., supra, at 37 (“Undoubtedly, the scope of this [commerce] power must be considered in the light of our dual system of government and may not be extended so as to embrace effects upon interstate commerce so indirect and remote that to embrace them, in view of our complex society, would effectually obliterate the distinction between what is national and what is local and create a completely centralized government”); Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. NLRB, 303 U. S. 453, 466-467 (1938).  See also Sandalow, Constitutional Interpretation, 79 Mich. L. Rev. 1033 , 1055 (1981) (“The question, always, is whether the exercise of power is consistent with the entire Constitution, a question that can be answered only by taking into account, so far as they are relevant, all of the values to which the Constitution — as interpreted over time — gives expression”).  For example, Congress might rationally conclude that the location a State chooses for its capital may affect interstate commerce, but the Court has suggested that Congress would nevertheless be barred from dictating that location because such an exercise of a delegated power would undermine the state sovereignty inherent in the Tenth Amendment.  Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, 565 (1911).  Similarly, Congress in the exercise of its taxing and spending powers can protect federal savings and loan associations, but if it chooses to do so by the means of converting quasi-public state savings and loan associations into federal associations, the Court has held that it contravenes the reserved powers of the States because the conversion is not a reasonably necessary exercise of power to reach the desired end.  Hopkins Federal Savings & Loan Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315 (1935).  The operative language of these cases varies, but the underlying principle is consistent: state autonomy is a relevant factor in assessing the means by which Congress exercises its powers.