**Combined Opinion**
 Within 15 years of the decision in Dennison it was said that "when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury by such refusal may have a mandamus to compel its performance," and it was no objection that such an order might be sought in the federal courts against a state officer.  Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 541 (1876).  *228 It has long been a settled principle that federal courts may enjoin unconstitutional action by state officials.  See Exparte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 155-156 (1908).  It would be superfluous to restate all the occasions on which this Court has imposed upon state officials a duty to obey the requirements of the Constitution, or compelled the performance of such duties; it may suffice to refer to Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294 (1955), and Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U. S. 1 (1958).  The fundamental premise of the holding in Dennison — "that the States and the Federal Government in all circumstances must be viewed as coequal sovereigns — is not representative of the law today." FERC v. Mississippi, <citedDecision>456 U. S. 742, 761</citedDecision> (1982).  Yet, with respect to extradition, the law has remained as it was more than a century ago.  Considered de novo, there is no justification for distinguishing the duty to deliver fugitives from the many other species of constitutional duty enforceable in the federal courts.  Indeed the nature of the obligation here is such as to avoid many of the problems with which federal courts must cope in other circumstances.  That this is a ministerial duty precludes conflict with essentially discretionary elements of state governance, and eliminates the need for continuing federal supervision of state functions.  The explicit and long-settled nature of the command, contained in a constitutional provision and a statute substantially unchanged for 200 years, eliminates the possibility that state officers will be subjected to inconsistent direction.  Because the duty is directly imposed upon the States by the Constitution itself, there can be no need to weigh the performance of the federal obligation against the powers reserved to the States under the Tenth Amendment.