**Dissenting Opinion**
Justice O’Connor, dissenting.  The Court today overrules a precedent that it has honored for nearly 100 years and expresses a willingness to cancel the constitutional immunity that traditionally has shielded the interest paid on state and local bonds from federal taxation.  Henceforth the ability of state and local governments to finance their activities will depend in part on whether Congress voluntarily abstains from tapping this permissible source of additional income tax revenue.  I believe that state autonomy is an important factor to be considered in reviewing the National Government’s exercise of its enumerated powers.  Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, <citedDecision>469 U. S. 528, 581</citedDecision> (1985) (O’Connor, J., joined by Powell and Rehnquist, JJ., dissenting).  I dissent from the decision to overrule Pollock v. Farmers’ Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429 (1895), and I would invalidate Congress’ attempt to regulate the sovereign States by threatening to deprive them of this tax immunity, which would increase their dependence on the National Government.  Section 310(b)(1) of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 (TEFRA), 26 U. S. C. § 103 (j)(1), provides that the interest paid on state and local bonds will be subject to federal income tax unless the bonds are issued in registered form.  The Court readily concludes that Congress could have prohibited outright the issuance of bearer bonds without violating the Tenth Amendment.  Ante, at 511-513.  But regardless of whether Congress could have required registration of the bonds directly under its commerce power, I agree with the Court that Congress may not accomplish the same end by an unconstitutional means.  Ante, at 515-516.  *531 In my view, the Tenth Amendment and principles of federalism inherent in the Constitution prohibit Congress from taxing or threatening to tax the interest paid on state and municipal bonds.  It is also arguable that the States’ autonomy is protected from substantial federal incursions by virtue of the Guarantee Clause of the Constitution, Art. IV, § 4.  See Merritt, The Guarantee Clause and State Autonomy: Federalism for a Third Century, 88 Colum. L. Rev. 1 , 70-78 (1988) (arguing that judicial enforcement of the Guarantee Clause is proper).  The Court never expressly considers whether federal taxation of state and local bond interest violates the Constitution.  Instead, the majority characterizes the federal tax exemption for state and local bond interest as an aspect of intergovernmental tax immunity, and it describes the decline of the intergovernmental tax immunity doctrine in this century.  But constitutional principles do not depend upon the rise or fall of particular legal doctrines.  This Court has a continuing responsibility “to oversee the Federal Government’s compliance with its duty to respect the legitimate interests of the States.” <citedDecision>Garcia, supra, at 581</citedDecision> (O’Connor, J., joined by Powell and Rehnquist, JJ., dissenting).  In my view, the Court shirks its responsibility because it fails to inquire into the substantial adverse effects on state and local governments that would follow from federal taxation of the interest on state and local bonds.  Long-term debt obligations are an essential source of funding for state and local governments.  In 1974, state and local governments issued approximately $23 billion of new municipal bonds; in 1984, they issued $102 billion of new bonds.  Report of Special Master 20.  State and local governments rely heavily on borrowed funds to finance education, road construction, and utilities, among other purposes.  As the Court recognizes, States will have to increase the interest rates they pay on bonds by 28-35% if the interest is subject to the federal income tax. Ante, at 511.