**Dissenting Opinion**
 If Congress may tax the interest paid on state and local bonds, it may strike at the very heart of state and local government activities.  In the pivotal cases which first set limits to intergovernmental tax immunity, this Court paid close attention to the practical effects of its decisions.  The Court limited the government’s immunity only after it determined that application of a tax would not substantially affect government operations.  Thus in the first case to uphold federal income taxation of revenue earned by a state contractor, this Court observed that “neither government may destroy the other nor curtail in any substantial manner the exercise of its powers.” Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523-524 (1926).  When this Court extended its holding to the case of a state tax on a federal contractor, it expressly noted that the tax “does not interfere in any substantial way with the performance of federal functions.” James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 161 (1937).  In upholding the application of the federal income tax to income derived from a state lease, this Court decided that mere theoretical concerns about interference with the functions of government did not justify immunity, but that “[rjegard must be had to substance and direct effects.” Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376, 386 (1938).  In Helvering v. Gerhardt, <citedDecision>304 U. S. 405</citedDecision> (1938), this Court upheld the application of the federal income tax to income earned by a state employee, because there is “[no] immunity when the burden on the state is so speculative and uncertain that if allowed it would restrict the federal taxing power without affording any corresponding tangible protection to the state government.” <citedDecision>Id., at 419-420</citedDecision> .  The instant case differs critically from the cases quoted above because the Special Master found that, if the interest on state and local bonds is taxed, the cost of borrowing by state and local governments would rise substantially.  This *533 certainly would affect seriously state and local government operations.  The majority is unconcerned with this difference because it is satisfied with the formal test of intergovernmental tax immunity that can be distilled from later cases. Under this test, if a tax is not imposed directly on the government, and does not discriminate against the government, then it does not violate intergovernmental tax immunity.  See ante, at 523.  I do not think the Court’s bipartite test adequately accommodates the constitutional concerns raised by the prospect of applying the federal income tax to the interest paid on state and local bonds.  This Court has a duty to inquire into the devastating effects that such an innovation would have on state and local governments.