**Lead Opinion**
 From Carroll through Ross , this Court has explained that automobile searches differ from other searches.  The dissent fails to acknowledge this basic principle and so misconstrues and misapplies our Fourth Amendment case law. The Chadwick dissenters predicted that the container rule would have “the perverse result of allowing fortuitous circumstances to control the outcome” of various searches.  433 *579 U. S., at 22 .  The rule also was so confusing that within two years after Chadwick , this Court found it necessary to expound on the meaning of that decision and explain its application to luggage in general.  Sanders, 442 U. S., at 761-764 .  Again, dissenters bemoaned the “inherent opaqueness” of the difference between the Carroll and Chadwick principles and noted “the confusion to be created for all concerned.” Id., at 771.  See also Robbins v. California, <citedDecision>453 U. S. 420, 425-426</citedDecision> (1981) (listing cases decided by Federal Courts of Appeals since Chadwick had been announced).  Three years after Sanders , we returned in Ross to “this troubled area,” 456 U. S., at 817 , in order to assert that Sanders had not cut back on Carroll .  Although we have recognized firmly that the doctrine of stare decisis serves profoundly important purposes in our legal system, this Court has overruled a prior case on the comparatively rare occasion when it has bred confusion or been a derelict or led to anomalous results.  See, e. g., Complete Auto Transit, Inc. v. Brady, 430 U. S. 274, 288-289 (1977).  Sanders was explicitly undermined in Ross, 456 U. S., at 824 , and the existence of the dual regimes for automobile searches that uncover containers has proved as confusing as the Chadwick and Sanders dissenters predicted.  We conclude that it is better to adopt one clear-cut rule to govern automobile searches and eliminate the warrant requirement for closed containers set forth in Sanders .  VI The interpretation of the Carroll doctrine set forth m Ross now applies to all searches of containers found in an automobile.