**Lead Opinion**
 These same concerns apply to federal claims that have been procedurally defaulted in state court. Just as in those *732 cases in which a state prisoner fails to exhaust state remedies, a habeas petitioner who has failed to meet the State’s procedural requirements for presenting his federal claims has deprived the state courts of an opportunity to address those claims in the first instance.  A habeas petitioner who has defaulted his federal claims in state court meets the technical requirements for exhaustion; there are no state remedies any longer “available” to him.  See 28 U. S. C. § 2254 (b); Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107, 125-126, n. 28 (1982).  In the absence of the independent and adequate state ground doctrine in federal habeas, habeas petitioners would be able to avoid the exhaustion requirement by defaulting their federal claims in state court. The independent and adequate state ground doctrine ensures that the States’ interest in correcting their own mistakes is respected in all federal habeas cases. B It is not always easy for a federal court to apply the independent and adequate state ground doctrine.  State court opinions will, at times, discuss federal questions at length and mention a state law basis for decision only briefly.  In such cases, it is often difficult to determine if the state law discussion is truly an independent basis for decision or merely a passing reference.  In other cases, state opinions purporting to apply state constitutional law will derive principles by reference to federal constitutional decisions from this Court. Again, it is unclear from such opinions whether the state law decision is independent of federal law. In Michigan v. Long, <citedDecision>463 U. S. 1032</citedDecision> (1983), we provided a partial solution to this problem in the form of a conclusive presumption.  Prior to <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> , when faced with ambiguous state court decisions, this Court had adopted, various inconsistent and unsatisfactory solutions including dismissal of the case, remand to the state court for clarification, or an independent investigation of state law. <citedDecision>Id., at 1038-1040</citedDecision> .  These solutions were burdensome both to this Court and to *733 the state courts.  They were also largely unnecessary in those cases where it fairly appeared that the state court decision rested primarily on federal law. The most reasonable conclusion in such cases is that there is not an independent and adequate state ground for the decision.  Therefore, in order to minimize the costs associated with resolving ambiguities in state court decisions while still fulfilling our obligation to determine if there was an independent and adequate state ground for the decision, we established a conclusive presumption of jurisdiction in these cases: “[W]hen, as in this case, a state court decision fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law, or to be interwoven with the federal law, and when the adequacy and independence of any possible state law ground is not clear from the face of the opinion, we will accept as the most reasonable explanation that the state court decided the case the way it did because it believed that federal law required it to do so.” <citedDecision>Id., at 1040-1041</citedDecision> .  After <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> , a state court that wishes to look to federal law for guidance or as an alternative holding while still relying on an independent and adequate state ground can avoid the presumption by stating “clearly and expressly that [its decision] is .  .  .  based on bona fide separate, adequate, and independent grounds.” <citedDecision>Id., at 1041</citedDecision> .  In Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U. S. 320 (1985), we applied the <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> presumption in the context of an alleged independent and adequate state procedural ground.  Caldwell, a criminal defendant, challenged at trial part of the prosecutor’s closing argument to the jury, but he did not raise the issue on appeal to the Mississippi Supreme Court. That court raised the issue sua sponte, discussing this federal question at length in its opinion and deciding it against Caldwell.  The court also made reference to its general rule that issues not raised on appeal are deemed waived.  The State argued to this Court that the procedural default constituted an independent and adequate state ground for the Mississippi *734 court’s decision.  We rejected this argument, noting that the state decision “‘fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law,”’ and there was no clear and express statement that the Mississippi Supreme Court was relying on procedural default as an independent ground.  Id., at 327, quoting <citedDecision>Long, supra, at 1040</citedDecision> .  <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Caldwell were direct review eases.  We first considered the problem of ambiguous state court decisions in the application of the independent and adequate state ground doctrine in a federal habeas case in Harris v. Reed, 489 U. S. 255 (1989).  Harris, a state prisoner, filed a petition for state postconviction relief, alleging that his trial counsel had rendered ineffective assistance.  The state trial court dismissed the petition, and the Appellate Court of Illinois affirmed.  In its order, the Appellate Court referred to the Illinois rule that “ ‘those [issues] which could have been presented [on direct appeal], but were not, are considered waived.’” Id., at 258 .  The court concluded that Harris could have raised his ineffective assistance claims on direct review.  Nonetheless, the court considered and rejected Harris’ claims on the merits.  Harris then petitioned for federal habeas.  The situation presented to this Court was nearly identical to that in <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Caldwell : a state court decision that fairly appeared to rest primarily on federal law in a context in which a federal court has an obligation to determine if the state court decision rested on an independent and adequate state ground.  “Faced with a common problem, we adopt[ed] a common solution.” Harris, supra, at 263 .  Harris applied in federal habeas the presumption this Court adopted in <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> for direct review cases. Because the Illinois Appellate Court did not “clearly and expressly” rely on waiver as a ground for rejecting Harris’ ineffective assistance of counsel claims, the <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> presumption applied and Harris was not barred from federal habeas.  Harris, supra, at 266 .  After Harris , federal courts on habeas corpus review of state prisoner claims, like this Court on direct review of state *735 court judgments, will presume that there is no independent and adequate state ground for a state court decision when the decision “fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law, or to be interwoven with the federal law, and when the adequacy and independence of any possible state law ground is not clear from the face of the opinion.” <citedDecision>Long, supra, at 1040-1041</citedDecision> .  In habeas, if the decision of the last state court to which the petitioner presented his federal claims fairly appeared to rest primarily on resolution of those claims, or to be interwoven with those claims, and did not clearly and expressly rely on an independent and adequate state ground, a federal court may address the petition.  * Ill A Coleman contends that the presumption of <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Harris applies in this case and precludes a bar to habeas because the Virginia Supreme Court’s order dismissing Coleman’s appeal did not “clearly and expressly” state that it was based on state procedural grounds.  Coleman reads Harris too broadly.  A predicate to the application of the Harris presumption is that the decision of the last state court to which the petitioner presented his federal claims must fairly appear to rest primarily on federal law or to be interwoven with federal law. Coleman relies on other language in Harris .  That opinion announces that “a procedural default does not bar consideration of a federal claim on either direct or habeas review unless the last state court rendering a judgment in the case *736 clearly and expressly states that its judgment rests on a state procedural bar.” Harris, swpra, at 263 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Coleman contends that this rule, by its terms, applies to all state court judgments, not just those that fairly appear to rest primarily on federal law. Coleman has read the rule out of context.  It is unmistakably clear that Harris applies the same presumption in ha-beas that <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Caldwell adopted in direct review cases in this Court. See Harris, 489 U. S., at 263 (“Faced with a common problem we adopt a common solution”); see also id., at 264 (“Under our decision today, a state court need do nothing more to preclude habeas review than it must do to preclude direct review”).  Indeed, the quoted passage purports to state the rule “on either direct or habeas review.” Harris , being a federal habeas case, could not change the rule for direct review; the reference to both direct and habeas review makes plain that Harris applies precisely the same rule as Long.  Harris describes the <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> presumption, and hence its own, as applying only in those cases in which “‘it fairly appears that the state court rested its decision primarily on federal law.’” Harris, supra, at 261 , quoting Long, <citedDecision>463 U. S., at 1040</citedDecision> .  That in one particular exposition of its rule Harris does not mention the predicate to application of the presumption does not change the holding of the opinion.  Coleman urges a broader rule: that the presumption applies in all cases in which a habeas petitioner presented his federal claims to the state court. This rule makes little sense.  In direct review cases, “[i]t is .  .  .  ‘incumbent upon this Court ... to ascertain for itself .  .  .  whether the asserted non-federal ground independently and adequately supports the [state court] judgment.’” <citedDecision>Long, supra, at 1038</citedDecision> , quoting Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282 U. S. 766 , 773 (1931).  Similarly, federal habeas courts must ascertain for themselves if the petitioner is in custody pursuant to a state court judgment that rests on independent and adequate state grounds.  In cases in which the <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Harris presump *737 tion applies, federal courts will conclude that the relevant state court judgment does not rest on an independent and adequate state ground.  The presumption, like all conclusive presumptions, is designed to avoid the costs of excessive inquiry where a per se rule will achieve the correct result in almost all cases. As we explained in a different context: “Per se rules .  .  .  require the Court to make broad generalizations .... Cases that do not fit the generalization may arise, but a per se rule reflects the judgment that such cases are not sufficiently common or important to justify the time and expense necessary to identify them.” Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 50, n. 16 (1977).  Per se rules should not be applied, however, in situations where the generalization is incorrect as an empirical matter; the justification for a conclusive presumption disappears when application of the presumption will not reach the correct result most of the time.  The <citedDecision>Long</citedDecision> and Harris presumption works because in the majority of cases in which a state court decision fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law or to be interwoven with such law, and the state court does not plainly state that it is relying on an independent and adequate state ground, the state court decision did not in fact rest on an independent and adequate state ground.  We accept errors in those small number of cases where there was nonetheless an independent and adequate state ground in exchange for a significant reduction in the costs of inquiry.  The tradeoff is very different when the factual predicate does not exist.  In those cases in which it does not fairly appear that the state court rested its decision primarily on federal grounds, it is simply not true that the “most reasonable explanation” is that the state judgment rested on federal grounds.  Cf. <citedDecision>Long, supra, at 1041</citedDecision> .  Yet Coleman would have the federal courts apply a conclusive presumption of no independent and adequate state grounds in every case in which a state prisoner presented his federal claims to a state *738 court, regardless of whether it fairly appears that the state court addressed those claims.  We cannot accept such a rule, for it would greatly and unacceptably expand the risk that federal courts will review the federal claims of prisoners in custody pursuant to judgments resting on independent and adequate state grounds.  Any efficiency gained by applying a conclusive presumption, and thereby avoiding inquiry into state law, is simply not worth the cost in the loss of respect for the State that such a rule would entail.  It may be argued that a broadly applicable presumption is not counterfactual after it is announced: Once state courts know that their decisions resting on independent and adequate state procedural grounds will be honored in federal habeas only if there is a clear and express statement of the default, these courts will provide such a statement in all relevant cases. This argument does not help Coleman.  Even assuming that Harris can be read as establishing a presumption in all cases, the Virginia Supreme Court issued its order dismissing Coleman’s appeal before this Court decided Harris .  As to this state court order, the absence of an express statement of procedural default is not very informative.