**Lead Opinion**
 There is no evidence other than O’Brien that the Virginia Supreme Court has ever conducted such a review, and O’Brien explicitly declined to announce such a *744 practice.  We decline Coleman’s invitation to announce such a practice for that court. Finally, Coleman argues that the Virginia Supreme Court’s dismissal order in this case is at least ambiguous because it was issued “[u]pon consideration” of all the filed papers, including Coleman’s petition for appeal and the Commonwealth’s brief in opposition, both of which discussed the merits of Coleman’s federal claims.  There is no doubt that the Virginia Supreme Court’s “consideration” of all filed papers adds some ambiguity, but we simply cannot read it as overriding the court’s explicit grant of a dismissal motion based solely on procedural grounds.  Those grounds are independent of federal law. Coleman contends also that the procedural bar was not adequate to support the judgment.  Coleman did not petition for certiorari on this question, and we therefore accept the Court of Appeals’ conclusion that the bar was adequate.  See 895 F. 2d, at 143 .  IV In Daniels v. Allen , the companion case to Brown v. Allen, <citedDecision>344 U. S. 443</citedDecision> (1953), we confronted a situation nearly identical to that here.  Petitioners were convicted in a North Carolina trial court and then were one day late in filing their appeal as of right in the North Carolina Supreme Court. That court rejected the appeals as procedurally barred.  We held that federal habeas was also barred unless petitioners could prove that they were “detained without opportunity to appeal because of lack of counsel, incapacity, or some interference by officials.” <citedDecision>Id., at 485-486</citedDecision> .  Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S. 391 (1963), overruled this holding.  Noia failed to appeal at all in state court his state conviction, and then sought federal habeas review of his claim that his confession had been coerced.  This Court held that such a procedural default in state court does not bar federal habeas review unless the petitioner has deliberately bypassed state procedures by intentionally forgoing an opportunity for state *745 review.  Id., at 438-439 .  Fay thus created a presumption in favor of federal habeas review of claims procedurally defaulted in state court. The Court based this holding on its conclusion that a State’s interest in orderly procedure is sufficiently vindicated by the prisoner’s forfeiture of his state remedies.  “Whatever residuum of state interest there may be under such circumstances is manifestly insufficient in the face of the federal policy ... of affording an effective remedy for restraints contrary to the Constitution.” Id., at 433-434 .