**Concurrence Opinion**
 .  where reliance interests are involved.” Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 828 (1991).  As the Court notes, “the Bellas Hess rule has engendered substantial reliance and has become part of the basic framework of a sizable industry.” Ante, at 317.  I do not share Justice White’s view that we may disregard these reliance interests because it has become unreasonable to rely upon Bellas Hess.  Post, at 331-332.  Even assuming for the sake of argument (I do not consider the point) that later decisions in related areas are inconsistent with the principles upon which Bellas Hess rested, we have never acknowledged that, but have instead carefully distinguished the case on its facts.  See, e. g., D. H. Holmes Co. v. McNamara, <citedDecision>486 U. S. 24, 33</citedDecision> (1988); National Geographic Society, supra, at 559.  It seems to me important that we retain our ability — and, what comes to the same thing, that *321 we maintain public confidence in our ability — sometimes to adopt new principles for the resolution of new issues without abandoning clear holdings of the past that those principles contradict.  We seemed to be doing that in this area.  Having affirmatively suggested that the “physical presence” rule could be reconciled with our new jurisprudence, we ought not visit economic hardship upon those who took us at our word.  We have recently told lower courts that “[i]f a precedent of this Court has direct application in a case, yet appears to rest on reasons rejected in some other line of decisions, [they] should follow the case which directly controls, leaving to this Court the prerogative of overruling its own decisions.” Rodriguez de Quijas v. Shearson/American Express, Inc., 490 U. S. 477, 484 (1989).  It is strangely incompatible with this to demand that private parties anticipate our overrulings.  It is my view, in short, that reliance upon a square, unabandoned holding of the Supreme Court is always justifiable reliance (though reliance alone may not always carry the day).