**Concurrence Opinion**
 Unquestionably, “[i]nvidious [racial] discrimination is an en *241 gine of oppression,” post, at 243 (Stevens, J., dissenting).  It is also true that “[r]emedial” racial preferences may reflect “a desire to foster equality in society,” ibid. But there can be no doubt that racial paternalism and its unintended consequences can be as poisonous and pernicious as any other form of discrimination.  So-called “benign” discrimination teaches many that because of chronic and apparently immutable handicaps, minorities cannot compete with them without their patronizing indulgence.  Inevitably, such programs engender attitudes of superiority or, alternatively, provoke resentment among those who believe that they have been wronged by the government’s use of race.  These programs stamp minorities with a badge of inferiority and may cause them to develop dependencies or to adopt an attitude that they are “entitled” to preferences.  Indeed, Justice Stevens once recognized the real harms stemming from seemingly “benign” discrimination.  See Fullilove v. Klutznick, <citedDecision>448 U. S. 448, 545</citedDecision> (1980) (Stevens, J., dissenting) (noting that “remedial” race legislation “is perceived by many as resting on an assumption that those who are granted this special preference are less qualified in some respect that is identified purely by their race”).  In my mind, government-sponsored racial discrimination based on benign prejudice is just as noxious as discrimination inspired by malicious prejudice.  * In each instance, it is racial discrimination, plain and simple.  It should be obvious that every racial classification helps, in a narrow sense, some races and hurts others.  As to the races benefited, the classification could surely be called “benign.” Accordingly, whether a law relying upon racial taxonomy is “benign” or “malign,” post, at 275 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting); see also post, at 247 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (addressing differences between “invidious” and “benign” discrimination), either tons on “ ‘whose ox is gored,’ ” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 295, n. 35 (1978) (Powell, J.) (quoting, A. Bickel, The Morality of Consent 133 (1975)), or on distinctions found only in the eye of the beholder.