**Dissenting Opinion**
 5 *274 Minority entrepreneurs sometimes fail to gain contracts though they are the low bidders, and they are sometimes refused work even after winning contracts.  6 Bias both conscious and unconscious, reflecting traditional and unexamined habits of thought, 7 keeps up barriers that must come down if equal opportunity and nondiscrimination are ever genuinely to become this country’s law and practice.  Given this history and its practical consequences, Congress surely can conclude that a carefully designed affirmative action program may help to realize, finally, the “equal protection of the laws” the Fourteenth Amendment has promised since 1868.  8 *275 H — I » — I The lead opinion uses one term, “strict scrutiny,” to describe the standard of judicial review for all governmental classifications by race.  Ante, at 235-237.  But that opinion’s elaboration strongly suggests that the strict standard announced is indeed “fatal” for classifications burdening groups that have suffered discrimination in our society.  That seems to me, and, I believe, to the Court, the enduring lesson one should draw from Korematsu v. United States, <citedDecision>323 U. S. 214</citedDecision> (1944); for in that case, scrutiny the Court described as “most rigid,” <citedDecision>id., at 216</citedDecision> , nonetheless yielded a pass for an odious, gravely injurious racial classification.  See ante, at 214-215 (lead opinion).  A Korematsu-type classification, as I read the opinions in this case, will never again survive scrutiny: Such a classification, history and precedent instruct, properly ranks as prohibited.  For a classification made to hasten the day when “we are just one race,” ante, at 239 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment), however, the lead opinion has dispelled the notion that “strict scrutiny” is “‘fatal in fact.’” Ante, at 237 (quoting Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448, 519 (1980) (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment)).  Properly, a majority of the Court calls for review that is searching, in order to ferret out classifications in reality malign, but masquerading as benign.  See ante, at 228-229 (lead opinion).  The Court’s once lax review of sex-based classifications demonstrates the need for such suspicion.