**Concurrence Opinion**
 Rhode Island prohibits advertisement of the retail price of alcoholic beverages, except at the place of sale.  The State’s only asserted justification for this ban is that it promotes temperance by increasing the cost of alcoholic beverages.  Brief for Respondent State of Rhode Island 22.  I agree with the Court that Rhode Island’s price-advertising ban is invalid.  I would resolve this case more narrowly, however, by applying our established Central Hudson test to determine whether this commercial speech regulation survives First Amendment scrutiny.  Under that test, we first determine whether the speech at issue concerns lawful activity and is not misleading, and whether the asserted governmental interest is substantial.  If both these conditions are met, we must decide whether the regulation “directly advances the governmental interest asserted, and whether it is not more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest.” Central Hudson Gas & Elec. *529 Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y., <citedDecision>447 U. S. 557, 566</citedDecision> (1980).  Given the means by which this regulation purportedly serves the State’s interest, our conclusion is plain: Rhode Island’s regulation fails First Amendment scrutiny.  Both parties agree that the first two prongs of the Central Hudson test are met. Even if we assume, arguendo, that Rhode Island’s regulation also satisfies the requirement that it directly advance the governmental'interest, Rhode Island’s regulation fails the final prong; that is, its ban is more extensive than necessary to serve the State’s interest.  As we^ have explained, in order for a speech restriction to pass muster under the final prong, there must be a fit between the legislature’s goal and method, “a fit that is not necessarily perfect, but reasonable; that represents not necessarily the single best disposition but one whose scope is in proportion to the interest served.” Board of Trustees of State Univ. of N. Y. v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469, 480 (1989) (internal quotation marks omitted).  While the State need not employ the least restrictive means to accomplish its goal, the fit between means and ends must be “narrowly tailored.” Ibid. The scope of the restriction on speech must be reasonably,, though it need not be perfectly, targeted to address the harm, intended to be regulated.  See Florida Bar v. Went For It, Inc., 515 U. S. 618, 632-634 (1995).  The State’s regulation must indicate a “carefu[l] calculation of J the costs and benefits associated with the burden on speech imposed by its prohibition.” Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., 507 U. S. 410, 417 (1993) (internal quotation, marks omitted).