**Concurrence Opinion**
 A tax, for example, Is not normally very difficult to administer and would have :a far ¡more certain and direct effect on prices, without any restriction on speech.  The principal opinion suggests further alternatives, such as limiting per capita purchases or conducting an educational campaign about the dangers of alcohol consumption.  Ante, at 507.  The ready availability of such alternatives — at least some of which would far more effectively achieve Rhode Island’s only professed goal, at comparatively small additional administrative cost — demonstrates that the fit between ends and means is not narrowly tailored.  Too, this regulation prevents sellers of alcohol from communicating price information anywhere but at the point of purchase.  No channels *531 exist at all to permit them to publicize the price of their products.  Respondents point for support to Posadas de Puerto Rico Associates v. Tourism Co. of P. R., <citedDecision>478 U. S. 328</citedDecision> (1986), where, applying the Central Hudson test, we upheld the constitutionality of a Puerto Rico law that prohibited the advertising of casino gambling aimed at residents of Puerto Rico, but permitted such advertising aimed at tourists.  The Court there accepted as reasonable the legislature’s belief that the regulation would be effective, and concluded that, because the restriction affected only advertising of casino gambling aimed at residents of Puerto Rico, not that aimed at tourists, the restriction was narrowly tailored to serve Puerto Rico’s interest.  <citedDecision>478 U. S., at 341-344</citedDecision> .  The Court accepted without question Puerto Rico’s account of the effectiveness and reasonableness of its speech restriction.  Respondents ask us to make a similar presumption here to uphold the validity of Rhode Island’s law. It is true that Posadas accepted as reasonable, without further inquiry, Puerto Rico’s assertions that the regulations furthered the government’s interest and were no more extensive than necessary to serve that interest.  Since Posa-das, however, this Court has examined more searchingly the State’s professed goal, and the speech restriction put into place to further it, before accepting a State’s claim that the speech restriction satisfies First Amendment scrutiny.  See, e. g., Florida Bar v. Went For It, Inc., supra; Rubin v. Coors Brewing Co., supra; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136 (1994); Edenfield v. Fane, 507 U. S. 761 (1993); Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., supra. In each of these cases we declined to accept at face value the proffered justification for the State’s regulation, but examined carefully the relationship between the asserted goal and the speech restriction used to reach that goal.  The closer look that we have required since Posadas comports better with the purpose of *532 the analysis set out in Central Hudson, by requiring the State to show that the speech restriction directly advances its interest and is narrowly tailored.  Under such a closer look, Rhode Island’s price-advertising ban clearly fails to pass muster.