**Concurrence Opinion**
 Under that test, we first determine whether the speech at issue concerns lawful activity and is not misleading, and whether the asserted governmental interest is substantial.  If both these conditions are met, we must decide whether the regulation “directly advances the governmental interest asserted, and whether it is not more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest.” Central Hudson Gas & Elec. *529 Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557, 566 (1980).  Given the means by which this regulation purportedly serves the State’s interest, our conclusion is plain: Rhode Island’s regulation fails First Amendment scrutiny.  Both parties agree that the first two prongs of the Central Hudson test are met. Even if we assume, arguendo, that Rhode Island’s regulation also satisfies the requirement that it directly advance the governmental'interest, Rhode Island’s regulation fails the final prong; that is, its ban is more extensive than necessary to serve the State’s interest.  As we^ have explained, in order for a speech restriction to pass muster under the final prong, there must be a fit between the legislature’s goal and method, “a fit that is not necessarily perfect, but reasonable; that represents not necessarily the single best disposition but one whose scope is in proportion to the interest served.” Board of Trustees of State Univ. of N. Y. v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469, 480 (1989) (internal quotation marks omitted).  While the State need not employ the least restrictive means to accomplish its goal, the fit between means and ends must be “narrowly tailored.” Ibid. The scope of the restriction on speech must be reasonably,, though it need not be perfectly, targeted to address the harm, intended to be regulated.  See Florida Bar v. Went For It, Inc., <citedDecision>515 U. S. 618, 632-634</citedDecision> (1995).  The State’s regulation must indicate a “carefu[l] calculation of J the costs and benefits associated with the burden on speech imposed by its prohibition.” Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., 507 U. S. 410, 417 (1993) (internal quotation, marks omitted).  The availability of less burdensome, alternatives to reach the stated goal signals that the fit between the legislature’s ends and the means chosen to accomplish those ends may be too imprecise to withstand First Amendment scrutiny.  See Rubin v. Coors Brewing Co., 514 U. S. 476, 486-487 (1995); Cincinnati, supra, at 417, n. 13 .  If alternative channels permit communication of the restricted speech, the regulation is *530 more likely to be considered reasonable.  See <citedDecision>Florida Bar, supra, at 632-634</citedDecision> .  Rhode Island offers one, and only one, justification for its ban on price advertising.  Rhode Island says that the ban is intended to keep alcohol prices high as a way to keep consumption low. By preventing sellers from informing customers of prices, the regulation prevents competition from driving prices down and requires consumers to spend more time to find the best price for alcohol.  Brief for Respondent State of Rhode Island 22.  The higher cost of obtaining alcohol, Rhode Island argues, will lead to reduced consumption.  The fit between Rhode Island’s method and this particular goal is not reasonable.  If the target is simply higher prices generally to discourage consumption, the regulation imposes too great, and unnecessary, a prohibition on speech in order to achieve it.