**Lead Opinion**
 Previously, in conducting that inquiry, we have found authority to abrogate under only two provisions of the Constitution.  In Fitzpatrick, we recognized that the Fourteenth Amendment, by expanding federal power at the expense of state autonomy, had fundamentally altered the balance of state and federal power struck by the Constitution.  Id., at 455 .  We noted that § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment contained prohibitions expressly directed at the States and that § 5 of the Amendment expressly provided that “The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.” See id., at 453 (internal quotation marks omitted).  We held that through the Fourteenth Amendment, federal power extended to intrude upon the province of the Eleventh Amendment and therefore that § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment allowed Congress to abrogate the immunity from suit guaranteed by that Amendment.  In only one other case has congressional abrogation of the States’ Eleventh Amendment immunity been upheld.  In Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., <citedDecision>491 U. S. 1</citedDecision> (1989), a plurality of the Court found that the Interstate Commerce Clause, Art. I, §8, cl. 3, granted Congress the power to abrogate state sovereign immunity, stating that the power to regulate interstate commerce would be “incomplete without the authority to render States liable in damages.” 491 U. S., at 19-20.  Justice White added the fifth vote necessary to the result in that case, but wrote separately in order to express *60 that he “[did] not agree with much of [the plurality’s] reasoning.” Id., at 57 (opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part).  In arguing that Congress through the Act abrogated the States’ sovereign immunity, petitioner does not challenge the Eleventh Circuit’s conclusion that the Act was passed pursuant to neither the Fourteenth Amendment nor the Interstate Commerce Clause.  Instead, accepting the lower court’s conclusion that the Act was passed pursuant to Congress’ power under the Indian Commerce Clause, petitioner now asks us to consider whether that Clause grants Congress the power to abrogate the States’ sovereign immunity.  Petitioner begins with the plurality decision in Union Gas and contends that “[t]here is no principled basis for finding that congressional power under the Indian Commerce Clause is less than that conferred by the Interstate Commerce Clause.” Brief for Petitioner 17.  Noting that the Union Gas plurality found the power to abrogate from the “plenary” character of the grant of authority over interstate commerce, petitioner emphasizes that the Interstate Commerce Clause leaves the States with some power to regulate, see, e. g., West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy, 512 U. S. 186 (1994), whereas the Indian Commerce Clause makes “Indian relations ... the exclusive province of federal law.” County of Oneida v. Oneida Indian Nation of N. Y., 470 U. S. 226, 234 (1985).  Contending that the Indian Commerce Clause vests the Federal Government with “the duty of protect-ting]” the tribes from “local ill feeling” and “the people of the States,” United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383-384 (1886), petitioner argues that the abrogation power is necessary “to protect the tribes from state action denying federally guaranteed rights.” Brief for Petitioner 20.  Respondents dispute petitioner’s analogy between the Indian Commerce Clause and the Interstate Commerce Clause.  They note that we have recognized that “the Interstate Commerce and Indian Commerce Clauses have very differ *61 ent applications." Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, 490 U. S. 163, 192 (1989), and from that they argue that the two provisions are “wholly dissimilar.” Brief for Respondents 21.  Respondents contend that the Interstate Commerce Clause grants the power of abrogation only because Congress’ authority to regulate interstate commerce would be “incomplete” without that “necessary” power.  Id., at 23, citing <citedDecision>Union Gas, supra, at 19-20</citedDecision> .  The Indian Commerce Clause is distinguishable, respondents contend, because it gives Congress complete authority over the Indian tribes.  Therefore, the abrogation power is not “necessary” to Congress’ exercise of its power under the Indian Commerce Clause.  10 Both parties make their arguments from the plurality decision in Union Gas, and we, too, begin there.  We think it clear that Justice Brennan’s opinion finds Congress’ power to abrogate under the Interstate Commerce Clause from the States’ cession of their sovereignty when they gave Congress plenary power to regulate interstate commerce.  See Union Gas, <citedDecision>491 U. S., at 17</citedDecision> (“The important point ... is that the provision both expands federal power and contracts state power”).  Respondents’ focus elsewhere is misplaced.  While the plurality decision states that Congress’ power under the Interstate Commerce Clause would be incomplete without the power to abrogate, that statement is made solely in order to emphasize the broad scope of Congress’ authority over interstate commerce.  <citedDecision>Id., at 19-20</citedDecision> .  Moreover, respondents’ rationale would mean that where Congress has *62 less authority, and the States have more, Congress’ means for exercising that power must be greater.  We read the plurality opinion to provide just the opposite.  Indeed, it was in those circumstances where Congress exercised complete authority that Justice Brennan thought the power to abrogate most necessary.  <citedDecision>Id., at 20</citedDecision> (“Since the States may not legislate at all in [the aforementioned] situations, a conclusion that Congress may not create a cause of action for money damages against the States would mean that no one could do so. And in many situations, it is only money damages that will carry out Congress’ legitimate objectives under the Commerce Clause”).  Following the rationale of the Union Gas plurality, our inquiry is limited to determining whether the Indian Commerce Clause, like the Interstate Commerce Clause, is a grant of authority to the Federal Government at the expense of the States.  The answer to that question is obvious.  If anything, the Indian Commerce Clause accomplishes a greater transfer of power from the States to the Federal Government than does the Interstate Commerce Clause.  This is clear enough from the fact that the States still exercise some authority over interstate trade but have been divested of virtually all authority over Indian commerce and Indian tribes.  Under the rationale of Union Gas, if the States’ partial cession of authority over a particular area includes cession of the immunity from suit, then their virtually total cession of authority over a different area must also include cession of the immunity from suit.  See <citedDecision>id., at 42</citedDecision> (Scalia, J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and O’Connor and Kennedy, JJ., dissenting) (“[I]f the Article I commerce power enables abrogation of state sovereign immunity, so do all the other Article I powers”); see Ponca Tribe of Oklahoma v. Oklahoma, 37 F. 3d 1422, 1428 (CA10 1994) (Indian Commerce Clause grants power to abrogate), cert. pending, No. 94-1029; Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe v. South Dakota, 3 F. 3d 273, 281 (CA8 1993) (same); cf. Chavez v. Arte Publico *63 Press, 59 F. 3d 539, 546-547 (CA5 1995) (After Union Gas, Copyright Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 8, must grant Congress power to abrogate).  We agree with petitioner that the plurality opinion in Union Gas allows no principled distinction in favor of the States to be drawn between the Indian Commerce Clause and the Interstate Commerce Clause.  Respondents argue, however, that we need not conclude that the Indian Commerce Clause grants the power to abrogate the States’ sovereign immunity.  Instead, they contend that if we find the rationale of the Union Gas plurality to extend to the Indian Commerce Clause, then “Union Gas should be reconsidered and overruled.” Brief for Respondents 25.  Generally, the principle of stare decisis, and the interests that it serves, viz., “the evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development of legal principles, .  .  .  reliance on judicial decisions, and ... the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial process,” Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827 (1991), counsel strongly against reconsideration of our precedent.  Nevertheless, we always have treated stare decisis as a “principle of policy,” Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119 (1940), and not as an “inexorable command,” Payne, 501 U. S., at 828 .  “[W]hen governing decisions are unworkable or are badly reasoned, ‘this Court has never felt constrained to follow precedent.’” Id., at 827 (quoting Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649, 665 (1944)).  Our willingness to reconsider our earlier decisions has been “particularly true in constitutional cases, because in such cases ‘correction through legislative action is practically impossible.’” Payne, supra, at 828 (quoting Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 407 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting)).  The Court in Union Gas reached a result without an expressed rationale agreed upon by a majority of the Court. We have already seen that Justice Brennan’s opinion received the support of only three other Justices.  See Union Gas, <citedDecision>491 U. S., at 5</citedDecision> (Marshall, Blackmun, and Stevens, JJ., *64 joined Justice Brennan).  Of the other five, Justice White, who provided the fifth vote for the result, wrote separately in order to indicate his disagreement with the plurality’s rationale, <citedDecision>id., at 57</citedDecision> (opinion concurring in judgment and dissenting in part), and four Justices joined together in a dissent that rejected the plurality’s rationale, <citedDecision>id., at 35-45</citedDecision> (Scalia, J., dissenting, joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and O’Connor and Kennedy, JJ.).  Since it was issued, Union Gas has created confusion among the lower courts that have sought to understand and apply the deeply fractured decision.  See, e.g., Chavez v. Arte Publico Press, supra, at 543-545 (“Justice White’s concurrence must be taken on its face to disavow” the plurality’s theory); 11 F. 3d, at 1027 (Justice White’s “vague concurrence renders the continuing validity of Union Gas in doubt”).  The plurality’s rationale also deviated sharply from our established federalism jurisprudence and essentially eviscerated our decision in Hans .  See Union Gas, supra, at 36 (“If Hans means only that federal-question suits for money damages against the States cannot be brought in federal court unless Congress clearly says so, it means nothing at all”) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  It was well established in 1989 when Union Gas was decided that the Eleventh Amendment stood for the constitutional principle that state sovereign immunity limited the federal courts’ jurisdiction under Article III. The text of the Amendment itself is clear enough on this point: “The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit.  ...” And our decisions since Hans had been equally clear that the Eleventh Amendment reflects “the fundamental principle of sovereign immunity [that] limits the grant of judicial authority in Art. III,” Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 465 U. S. 89, 97-98 (1984); see Union Gas, supra, at 38 (“ ‘[T]he entire judicial power granted by the Constitution does not embrace authority to entertain a suit brought by private parties against a State without consent given ...’”) (Scalia, *65 J., dissenting) (quoting Ex parte New York, 256 U. S. 490, 497 (1921)); see also cases cited at n. 7, supra. As the dissent in Union Gas recognized, the plurality’s conclusion — that Congress could under Article I expand the scope of the federal courts’ jurisdiction under Article III — “contradicted] our unvarying approach to Article III as setting forth the exclusive catalog of permissible federal-court jurisdiction.” Union Gas, supra, at 39.  Never before the decision in Union Gas had we suggested that the bounds of Article III could be expanded by Congress operating pursuant to any constitutional provision other than the Fourteenth Amendment.  Indeed, it had seemed fundamental that Congress could not expand the jurisdiction of the federal courts beyond the bounds of Article III. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803).  The plurality’s citation of prior decisions for support was based upon what we believe to be a misreading of precedent.  See Union Gas, <citedDecision>491 U. S., at 40-41</citedDecision> (Scalia, J., dissenting).  The plurality claimed support for its decision from a case holding the unremarkable, and completely unrelated, proposition that the States may waive their sovereign immunity, see <citedDecision>id.,</citedDecision> at 14-15 (citing Parden v. Terminal Railway of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S. 184 (1964)), and cited as precedent propositions that had been merely assumed for the sake of argument in earlier cases, see 491 U. S., at 15 (citing Welch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., 483 U. S., at 475-476 , and n. 5, and County of Oneida v. Oneida Indian Nation of N. Y. 470 U. S., at 252 ).  The plurality’s extended reliance upon our decision in Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445 (1976), that Congress could under the Fourteenth Amendment abrogate the States’ sovereign immunity was also, we believe, misplaced.  Fitzpatrick was based upon a rationale wholly inapplicable to the Interstate Commerce Clause, viz., that the Fourteenth Amendment, adopted well after the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment and the ratification of the Constitution, oper *66 ated to alter the pre-existing balance between state and federal power achieved by Article III and the Eleventh Amendment.  Id., at 454 .  As the dissent in Union Gas made clear, Fitzpatrick cannot be read to justify “limitation of the principle embodied in the Eleventh Amendment through appeal to antecedent provisions of the Constitution.” Union Gas, supra, at 42 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  In the five years since it was decided, Union Gas has proved to be a solitary departure from established law. See Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority v. Metcalf & Eddy, Inc., 506 U. S. 139 (1993).  Reconsidering the decision in Union Gas, we conclude that none of the policies underlying stare decisis require our continuing adherence to its holding.