**Concurrence Opinion**
 I agree with the majority and with Justice Souter that United States v. Halper, 490 U. S. 435 (1989), does not provide proper guidance for distinguishing between criminal and noncriminal sanctions and proceedings.  I also agree that United States v. Ward, 448 U. S. 242, 248 (1980), and Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U. S. 144, 168-169 (1963), set forth the proper approach.  I do not join the Court’s opinion, however, because I disagree with its reasoning in two respects.  First, unlike the Court I would not say that “‘only the clearest proof will “transform” into a criminal punishment what a legislature calls a “civil remedy.” Ante, at 100.  I understand that the Court has taken this language from earlier cases. See Ward, supra, at 249 .  But the limitation that the language suggests is not consistent with what the Court has actually done.  Rather, in fact if not in theory, the Court has simply applied factors of the Kennedy variety to the matter at hand. In Department of Revenue of Mont. v. Kurth Ranch, <citedDecision>511 U. S. 767</citedDecision> (1994), for example, the Court held that the collection of a state tax imposed on the possession and storage of drugs was “the functional equivalent of a successive criminal prosecution” because, among other things, the tax was “remarkably high”; it had “an obvious deterrent purpose”; it was “conditioned on the commission of a crime”; it was “exacted only after the taxpayer ha[d] been arrested for the precise conduct that gives rise to the tax obligation”; its alternative function of raising revenue could be equally well served by increasing the fine imposed on the activity; and it departed radically from “normal revenue laws” by taxing contraband goods perhaps destroyed before the tax was imposed.  <citedDecision>Id., at 781-784</citedDecision> .  This reasoning tracks the nonexclusive list of factors set forth in Kennedy , and it is, I believe, the proper approach.  The “clearest proof” language *116 is consequently misleading, and I would consign it to the same legal limbo where Halper now rests.  Second, I would not decide now that a ate a statute only “ ‘on its face,’ ” ante, at 100 (quoting Kennedy, supra, at 169 ), rather than “assessing the character of the actual sanctions imposed,” Halper, supra, at 447 ; ante, at 101.  Halper involvéd an ordinary civil-fine statute that as normally applied would not have created any “double jeopardy” problem.  It was not the statute itself, but rather the disproportionate relation between fine and conduct as the statute was applied in the individual case that led this Court, unanimously, to find that the “civil penalty” was, in those circumstances, a second “punishment” that constituted double jeopardy.  See 490 U. S., at 439, 452 (finding that $130,000 penalty was “sufficiently disproportionate” to $585 loss plus approximately $16,000 in Government expenses caused by Halper’s fraud to constitute a second punishment in violation of double jeopardy).