**Lead Opinion**
 What ever happened to the need for “legislative flexibility”?  * * * Concluding, for the foregoing reasons, that the sovereign immunity of the State of Florida was neither validly abrogated by the Trademark Remedy Clarification Act, nor voluntarily waived by the State’s activities in interstate commerce, we hold that the federal courts are without jurisdiction to entertain this suit against an arm of the State of Florida.  The judgment of the Third Circuit dismissing the action is affirmed.  It is so ordered.  See Hardin, The Tragedy of the Commons, 162 Science 1243 (1968).  In response to this string of cases criticizing or narrowing the holding of Parden , Justice Breyek holds up three post -Parden cases as decisions that “support[ed]” Parden, post, at 696, or at least “carefully avoided calling [it] into question,” post, at 698.  His perception of “support” in Atasca-dero State Hospital v. Scanlon, <citedDecision>473 U. S. 234</citedDecision> (1985), rests upon nothing more substantial than the fact that the case “suggest[ed] that a waiver *679 may be found in a State’s acceptance of a federal grant.” Post, at 696.  But we make the same suggestion today, while utterly rejecting Parden .  As we explain elsewhere in detail, see infra, at 686-687, conditions attached to a State’s receipt of federal funds are simply not analogous to Parden-style conditions attached to a State’s decision to engage in otherwise lawful commercial activity.  Justice Breyer’s second case, Welch , overruled Parden in part, as we discuss above, and we think it quite impossible to believe that the following statement in the opinion did not “questio[n] the holding of Parden that the Court today discards,’"'post, at 698: “We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Congress to subject uneonsenting States to suit in federal court is not confined to §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.” 483 U. S., at 475.  Calling what a prior case has flatly decided a “question” in need of “deciding,” and (lest there be any doubt on the point) making it clear that we “intimatfe] no view” as to whether the answer given by that prior ease was correct, surely was handwriting on the wall which even an inept cryptologist would recognize as spelling out the caption of today’s opinion.  As for Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44 (1996), we explain elsewhere, see infra, at 682-684, how that case was logically and practically inconsistent with Parden , even though it did not expressly overrule it.  Justice Breyer realizes this well enough, or else his call for an overruling of that case, which occupies almost half of his dissent, see post, at 699-705, would be supremely irrelevant to the matter before us.