**Concurrence Opinion**
 For attribution of indoctrination is a relative question.  If the government is offering assistance to recipients who provide, so to speak, a broad range of indoctrination, the government itself is not thought responsible for any particular indoctrination.  To put the point differently, if the government, seeking to further some legitimate secular purpose, offers aid on the same terms, without regard to religion, to all who adequately further that purpose, then it is fair to say that any aid going to a religious recipient only has the effect of furthering that secular purpose.” Ante, at 809-810 (citation omitted).  I agree with Justice Souter that the plurality, by taking such a stance, “appears to take evenhandedness neutrality and in practical terms promote it to a single and sufficient test for the establishment constitutionality of school aid.” Post, at 900 (dissenting opinion).  I do not quarrel with the plurality’s recognition that neutrality is an important reason for upholding government-aid programs against Establishment Clause challenges.  Our cases have described neutrality in precisely this mannei’, and we have emphasized a program’s neutrality repeatedly in our decisions approving various forms of school aid.  See, e. g., Agostini, supra, at 228, 231-282 ; Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School Dist., 509 U. S. 1, 10 (1993); Witters v. Washington Dept. of Servs. for Blind, 474 U. S. 481, 487-488 (1986); id., at 493 (O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring *839 in judgment); Mueller v. Allen, <citedDecision>463 U. S. 388, 397-399</citedDecision> (1983).  Nevertheless, we have never held that a government-aid program passes constitutional muster solely because of the neutral criteria it employs as a basis for distributing aid.  For example, in Agostini , neutrality was only one of several factors we considered in determining that New York City’s Title I program did not have the impermissible effect of advancing religion.  See 521 U. S., at 226-228 (noting lack of evidence of inculcation of religion by Title I instructors, legal requirement that Title I services be supplemental to regular curricula, and that no Title I funds reached religious schools’ coffers).  Indeed, given that the aid in Agostini had secular content and was distributed on the basis of wholly neutral criteria, our consideration of additional factors demonstrates that the plurality’s rule does not accurately describe our recent Establishment Clause jurisprudence.  See also Zobrest, swpra, at 10,12-13 (noting that no government funds reached religious school’s coffers, aid did not relieve school of expense it otherwise would have assumed, and aid was not distributed to school but to the child).  Justice Souter provides a comprehensive review of our Establishment Clause cases on government aid to religious institutions that is useful for its explanation of the various ways in which we have used the term “neutrality” in our decisions.