**Dissenting Opinion**
 See App. 70-78.  Indeed, the Court retreats from Treaty gave the Chippewa an unlimited right to hunt, fish, and gather free from regulation when it states: “We have repeatedly reaffirmed state authority to impose reasonable and necessary nondiscriminatory regulations on Indian hunting, fishing, and gathering rights in the interest of conservation.” Ante, at 205.  If the 1837 Treaty gives the Chippewa a right to be free from state regulation, why may Minnesota impose any regulations, reasonable and necessary or otherwise?  The Court’s answer to that question is that our prior decisions have established that Indians never have “‘absolute freedom,’ ” ante, at 204, from state regulation, no matter what a treaty might say; rather, Indians’ hunting, fishing, and gathering activities are limited by those state regulations which are necessary for ensuring the conservation of natural resources.  To be sure, Indians do not have absolute freedom from state regulation of their off-reservation activities.  Indeed, the general rule is that the off-reservation activities of Indians are subject to a State’s nondiscriminatory laws, absent express federal law to the contrary.  See, e. g., Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife v. Klamath Tribe, <citedDecision>473 U. S. 753, 765, n. 16</citedDecision> (1985); New Mexico v. Mescalero Apache Tribe, 462 U. S. 324, 335, n. 18 (1983).  The majority, however, overlooks the fact that the scope of a State’s regulatory authority depends upon the language of the treaty in question.  At a minimum, States may issue and enforce those regulations of Indians’ off-reservation usufructuary activities that are necessary in the interest of conservation.  Our decisions suggest that state regulatory authority is so limited when, with *223 the treaty in question, the Indians reserved a right to fish, hunt, or gather on ceded lands.  But it is doubtful that the so-called “conservation necessity5’ standard applies in eases, such as this one, where Indians reserved no more than a 'privilege to hunt, fish, and gather.  The conservation necessity standard appears to have its origin in Tulee v. Washington, 315 U. S. 681 (1942).  In the 1859 Treaty with the Yakima Indians, the Yakima reserved “The right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in common with citizens of the Territory.’ ” Id., at 683 (quoting 12 Stat. 953 ).