**Dissenting Opinion**
 But it is doubtful that the so-called “conservation necessity5’ standard applies in eases, such as this one, where Indians reserved no more than a 'privilege to hunt, fish, and gather.  The conservation necessity standard appears to have its origin in Tulee v. Washington, 315 U. S. 681 (1942).  In the 1859 Treaty with the Yakima Indians, the Yakima reserved “The right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in common with citizens of the Territory.’ ” Id., at 683 (quoting 12 Stat. 953 ).  The Court held that Washington State had the “power to impose on Indians, equally with others, such restrictions of a purely regulatory nature concerning the time and manner of fishing outside the reservation as are necessary for the conservation offish,” but that the Treaty foreclosed “the state from charging the Indians a fee of the kind in question.” 315 U. S., at 684 (emphasis added).  Its conclusion was driven by the language of the Treaty as well as the report of the treaty negotiations and what it revealed to be the Yakimas’ understanding of the Treaty — to preserve their right “to hunt and fish in accordance with the immemorial customs of their tribes.” Ibid, (emphasis added).  1 Subsequent decisions evaluating state regulation by the conservation necessity standard similarly focused upon the language of the Treaty or agreement at issue and the Indians’ understanding of the Treaty as revealed by the historical evidence.  See Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Assn., <citedDecision>443 U. S. 658, 665-669, 674-685</citedDecision> (1979) (recognizing that the Court had construed the same Treaty language several times before, and emphasizing *224 the historical background against which the Treaty at issue was signed); Puyallup Tribe v. Department of Game of Wash., 891 U. S. 392 , 395, 397 (1968) (involving treaty language almost identical to that at issue in United States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371 (1905), and Tulee, supra); see also Antoine v. Washington, 420 U. S. 194, 206 (1975) (favorably comparing the somewhat different language of the agreement at issue with the language of the Treaties at issue in Winans and Puyallup).  Most important, all the cases that the majority cites in support of the proposition that States may enforce against Indians in their exercise of off-reservation usufructuary activities only those regulations necessary for purposes of conservation, ante, at 204-205, involved the same or substantially similar treaty language reserving a right to hunt or fish. And all but Antoine also provided that the Indians could exercise their reserved rights at the usual and accustomed places.  In New York ex rel. Kennedy v. (1916), the Court considered significantly different language.  The Big Tree Treaty of 1797, as the agreement was known, provided that the Seneca were to retain “the privilege of fishing and hunting on the said tract of land” conveyed by the agreement.  7 Stat. 602 (emphasis added); see also 241 U. S., at 562 (quoting the reservation clause).  The Court characterized the Senecas’ claim as one “sought to be maintained in derogation of the sovereignty of the State.” Ibid. In rejecting such a claim, it stated: “[I]t can hardly be supposed that the thought of the Indians was concerned with the necessary exercise of inherent power under modern conditions for the preservation of wild life. But the existence of the sovereignty of the State was well understood, and this conception involved all that was necessarily implied in that sovereignty, whether fully appreciated or not.  We do not think that it is a proper construction of the reservation in the conveyance to regard it as an attempt either to *225 reserve sovereign prerogative or so to divide the inherent power of preservation as to make its competent exercise impossible.