**Combined Opinion**
The penalty fixed is not less than $1,000 a day. The Construction Company avers that this act is in contravention of ยง 2, Article III, i.e., the judiciary article of the Federal Constitution, and of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The defendant filed an answer in which there were many denials. One was that the complainant was engaged in interstate commerce. The answer did not deny, however, that the complainant was a foreign corporation, that it had been duly granted a license to do business in the State of Arkansas, that its right to do business in the State thus licensed was a valuable right, that the complainant had brought suit in the federal district court and removed another case to that court, that such suit and removal were violations of the license granted by the State of Arkansas, or that the defendant intended to cancel the plaintiff's license. The case was heard on bill and answer, and is to be considered on the averments of the bill which are not denied by the answer. Iowa v. Illinois, <targetCase>147 U.S. 1</targetCase> , 7. The sole question presented on the record is whether a state law is unconstitutional which revokes a license to a foreign corporation to do business within the State because, *532 while doing only a domestic business in the State, it resorts to the federal court sitting in the State. The cases in this court in which the conflict between the power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business within its borders, and the federal constitutional right of such foreign corporation to resort to the federal courts has been considered, can not be reconciled. They began with Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445 , which was followed by Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U.S. 535 ; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U.S. 186 ; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U.S. 202 ; Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio R.R. Co., 151 U.S. 673 , 684; Barrow S.S. Co. v. Kane, 170 U.S. 100 , 111; Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U.S. 246 ; Herndon v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U.S. 135 ; Harrison v. St. Louis & San Francisco R.R.