**Concurrence Opinion**
2 Congress, on the Other hand, to lay taxes in order “to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defense and general Welfare, of the United States,” Art. I, § 8, can reach every person and every dollar in the land with due regard to Constitutional limitations as to the method of laying taxes. But, as is true of other great activities'of thé state and national governments, the fact that we are a "federalism rais.es problems regarding.these vital powers of taxation. Since tw.o governments have authority within the same territory, neither through its power to’ tax can be allowed to cripple the operations of the other. Therefore state and federal governments must avoid exactions which discriminate against each other or obviously interfere with one another’s operations. These were the'-determining considerations that led the great Chief Justice to strike down the Maryland statute as an unambiguous measure of discrimination against the use by the United States of the Bank of the United States as one of its instruments of government. The arguments upon which McCulloch v. Maryland, <targetCase>4 Wheat. 316</targetCase>, rested had their roots in actuality. But they have been distorted by sterile refinements unrelated *489 to affairs. These refinements derived authority from ah unfortunate remark in the opinion in <targetCase>McCulloch</targetCase> v. <targetCase>Maryland</targetCase>. Partly as a flourish of rhetoric and partly because the intellectual fashion of the times indulged a free use of absolutes,. Chief Justice Marshall gave currency to the phrase that “the power to tax involves, the power to destroy.” Id., at p. 431. •' This dictum was treated as though it were a constitutional mandate: Blit not without protest. One of the most trenchant minds on the Marshall court, Justice William Johnson, early analyzed the dangerous inroads upon the political freedom of the States and- the Union within their respective orbits resulting from a doctrinaire application of the generalities uttered in the course of the opinion in <targetCase>McCulloch</targetCase> v. <targetCase>Maryland</targetCase>. 3 The seductive cliché that the power to tax involves the power to destroy waslfused with another assumption, likewise not to be found in the Constitution itself, namely the doctrine that'the immunities are correlative — because the existence of the national government implies immunities from state taxation, the existence- of state governments implies equivalent immunities from federal taxation. When this doctrine was first applied Mr. Justice Bradley registered a powerful dissent, 4 the force of whiph gathered rather than lost strength with time. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 128. *490 All these doctrines of intergovernmental immunity have until recently been moving in the realm of what Lincoln called “pernicious abstractions.”1 The web of unreality spun from Marshall’s famous dictum was brushed away by one stroke of Mr. Justice Holmes’s pen: “The power to tax is not the power to destroy while this Court sits.” Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, 223 (dissent). Failure to exempt public functionaries from the universal duties of citizenship to pay for the costs of government was hypothetically transmuted into hostile action of one government against the other.