**Lead Opinion**
§ 4 (b). Its funds are deposited in the Treasury of the United States, and the compensation of its employees is paid by drafts upon the Treasury. *477 For the purposes of this case we may assume that the creation of the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation was,a constitutional exercise of the powers of the federal government. Cf. Kay v. United States, 303 U. S. 1. As that government derives its authority wholly from powers delegated to it by the Constitution, its every action within its constitiitional power is governmental action, and since Congress is made the sole judge of what powers within the constitutional grant are to be, exercised, all' activities of government constitutionally authorized by Congress must stand on a parity with respect to their constitutional immunity from taxation. McCulloch v. Maryland, <targetCase>4 Wheat. 316</targetCase>, 432; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 158-159; South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 451—452; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 412—415. And when the national government lawfully acts through a corporation which it owns and controls, those activities are governmental functions entitled to whatever tax immunity attaches to those functions when carried on by the government itself through its departments. See <targetCase>McCulloch</targetCase> v. Maryland, supra, 421- 422; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255 U. S. 180, 208; Federal Land Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra. The single question with which we are now concerned is whether the tax laid by the state upon the salary of respondent, employed by a corporate instrumentality of the federal government, imposes an unconstitutional burden upon that government. The theory of the tax immunity of either government, state or national, and its instrumentalities, from taxation by the other, has been rested Upon an implied liniitation on the taxing power of each, such as to forestall undue interference, through the exercise of that power, with the govern *478 mental activities of the other. That the two types of immunity may not, in all respects, stand on a parity has been recognized from the beginning, <targetCase>McCulloch</targetCase> v. Maryland, supra, 435-436, and possible differences in application, deriving from differences in the source, nature and extent of the immunity of the governments and their agencies, were pointed out and discussed by this Court in detail during the last term. Helvering v. Gerhardt, supra, 412-413, 416. So far as now relevant, those differences have been thought to be traceable to the fact that the federal government, is one of delegated powers in the exercise of which Congress is supreme; so that every agency which Congress can constitutionally create is a governmental agency. And since the power to create the -agency includes the implied power to do whatever is needful or appropriate, if not expressly prohibited, to protect the agency, there has been attributed to Congress some scope, the limits of which it is not now necessary to define, for granting or withholding immunity of federal agencies from state taxation. See Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 583, 585; Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, 30, 31; Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall.