**Concurrence Opinion**
Australian courts were at first inclined to follow the earlier doctrines of this Court regarding intergovernmental immunity. 7 *491 Both the Supreme Court of Canada and the High Court of Australia on fuller consideration — and for present purposes the British North America Act, 30 & 31 Viet., c. 3, and the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, 63 & 64 Viet., c. 12, raise the same legal issues as does our Constitution 8 — have completely rejected the doctrine of intergovernmental immunity. 9 In this Court dissents have gradually become majority opinions, and even before the present decision the rationale of the doctrine had been undermined. 10 The judicial history of this doctrine of immunity is a striking illustration of an occasional tendency to encrust 'unwarranted interpretations upon the Constitution and thereafter to consider merely what has been judicially said about the Constitution, rather than to be primarily controlled by a fair conception of the Constitution. Judicial exegesis is unavoidable with reference to an organic act like our Constitution, drawn in many particulars with purposed vagueness so as to leave room for the unfolding future. But the ultimate touchstone of constitutionality is the Constitution itself and not what we *492 have said about it. 11 Neither Dobbins v. Commissioners, <targetCase>16 Pet. 435</targetCase>, and its offspring, nor Collector v. Day, supra, and its, can stand appeal to the Constitution and its historic purposes. Since both are the starting points of an interdependent doctrine, both should be, as I assume them to be, overruled this day. Whether Congress may, by express legislation, relieve its functionaries from their civic obligations to pay for the benefits of the State governments under which they live is matter for another day. The state of the docket of the High Court of Australia and that of the Supreme Court of Canada still permits them to continue the classic practice of seriatim opinions. Article 1, § 10, U. S. Constitution'. Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 472-73.