**Combined Opinion**
We therefore turn to the decisive question under the due process contention, which is: Does the due process clause forbid a state to pass laws clearly designed to safeguard the opportunity of non-union workers to get and hold jobs, free from discrimination against them because they are non-union workers? There was a period in which labor union members who wanted to get and hold jobs were the victims of widespread employer discrimination practices. Contracts between employers and their employees were used by employers to accomplish this anti-union employment discrimination. Before hiring workers, employers required them to sign agreements stating that the workers were not and would not become labor union members. Such anti-union practices were so obnoxious to workers that they gave these required agreements the name of "yellow dog contracts." This hostility of workers also prompted passage of state and federal laws to ban employer discrimination against union members and to outlaw yellow dog contracts. In 1907 this Court in Adair v. United States, <targetCase>208 U.S. 161</targetCase> , considered the federal law which prohibited discrimination against union workers. Adair, an agent of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, had been indicted and convicted for having discharged Coppage, an employee of the railroad, because Coppage was a member of the Order of Locomotive Firemen. This Court there held, over the dissents of Justices McKenna and Holmes, that the railroad, because of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, had a constitutional right to discriminate *535 against union members and could therefore do so through use of yellow dog contracts. The chief reliance for this holding was Lochner v. New York, 198 U.S. 45 , which had invalidated a New York law prescribing maximum hours for work in bakeries. This Court had found support for its Lochner holding in what had been said in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U.S. 578 , a case on which appellants here strongly rely. There were strong dissents in the <targetCase>Adair</targetCase> and Lochner cases. In 1914 this Court reaffirmed the principles of the <targetCase>Adair</targetCase> case in Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U.S. 1 , again over strong dissents, and held that a Kansas statute outlawing yellow dog contracts denied employers and employees a liberty to fix terms of employment. For this reason the law was held invalid under the due process clause. The Allgeyer-Lochner-Adair-Coppage constitutional doctrine was for some years followed by this Court. It was used to strike down laws fixing minimum wages and maximum hours in employment, laws fixing prices, and laws regulating business activities. See cases cited in Olsen v. Nebraska, 313 U.S. 236 , 244-246, and Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U.S. 53 , 66-67. And the same constitutional philosophy was faithfully adhered to in Adams v. Tanner, 244 U.S. 590 , a case strongly pressed upon us by appellants. In Adams v. Tanner , this Court with four justices dissenting struck down a state law absolutely prohibiting maintenance of private employment agencies.