**Dissenting Opinion**
As to ordinary insurance contracts, the forum has had a much wider scope. The Court has balanced the interests of the competing jurisdictions, including factors such as the residence of the insured, where premiums were paid or payable, where the policy was applied for and delivered, where the insured died, what law the policy itself provided should govern, and whether loan agreements and new policies were ancillary to the initial policy. The forum has been permitted to protect its residents against insurance companies, but the Court has required the forum to have more than a casual interest. It has not been sufficient, for example, that the forum was the State of initial issue of the policy on which a defaulted loan was obtained, New York Life Insurance Co. v. Head, supra, or the place of issue of a converted policy and the residence at death of the insured, Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, supra, or the place where suit has been brought, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Yates, supra. On the other hand, the forum would succeed if it asserted a strong local policy requiring an insur *419 able interest, see Griffin v. McCoach, supra, or a reserve requirement more stringent than that of the State of incorporation, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. v. Duel, supra. (c) In workmen’s compensation cases the Court has likewise adopted an interests-weighing approach. The relevant considerations have been: the place of the employment contract; the residence of the parties; the place of injury; the possibility of the workman becoming a public charge in the State seeking to award compensation, see Alaska Packers Association v. Industrial Accident Comm’n, supra; the interest of a State in securing prompt payment of medical fees to its residents, see Pacific Employers Insurance Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm’n, supra; the aspect of exclusiveness of the foreign statute, see Industrial Commission v. McCartin, supra; the State’s interest in the bodily safety and economic protection of workers within it; the difference between a defense (which if rejected results in irremediable liability) and a cause of action (which if not allowed in one State can be pursued in another), see Bradford Electric Light Co. v. <targetCase>Clapper, supra</targetCase>; the amount of work to be performed in a State, see Cardillo v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., supra; and the policy of determinate liability and prompt remedy underlying workmen’s compensation acts. The Court first enunciated the rule that the forum must permit a defense based on the exclusiveness of the sister-state statute where the only contact of the forum was that it was the place of injury. Bradford Electric Light Co. v. <targetCase>Clapper, supra</targetCase>. Conversely, the Court held that the place of contract could award compensation though the injury occurred elsewhere. Alaska Packers Association v. Industrial Accident Comm’n, supra. Subsequently, the Court held that the forum could prevail, even though the parties resided and the contract was entered in another State whose statute was exclusive, if *420 the injury occurred in the forum and enforcement of the defense of the outside statute was deemed “obnoxious” to the forum’s policy. Pacific Employers Insurance Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm’n, supra. In applying to the immediate situation the fair guidance offered by the past decisions of the Court regarding full faith and credit, a number of considerations become apparent: 2 (1) Unlike the other workmen’s compensation cases — or, for that matter, any of the cases in which the forum has prevailed in a conflict between the forum and the outside law — the interest of the forum here is solely dependent on the occurrence of the injury within its borders. No rights of Arkansas residents are involved, since none of the parties is an Arkansan; the workman was removed immediately to a Missouri hospital and has, so far as appears, remained in Missouri.