**Concurrence Opinion**
A. S. 2492. Trial by court-martial is constitutionally permissible only for persons who can, on a fair appraisal, be regarded as falling within the authority given to Congress under Article I to regulate the “land and naval Forces,” and who therefore are not protected by specific provisions of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. It is of course true that, at least regarding the right to a grand jury indictment, the Fifth Amendment is not unmindful of the demands of military discipline. 1 Within the scope of appropriate construction, the phrase “except in cases arising in the land and naval Forces” has been assumed also to modify the guaranties of speedy and public trial *43 by jury. And so, the problem before us is not to be answered by recourse to the literal words of this exception. The cases cannot be decided simply by saying that, since these women were not in uniform, they were not “in the land and naval Forces.” The Court’s function in constitutional adjudications is not exhausted by a literal reading of words. It may be tiresome, but it is nonetheless vital, to keep our judicial minds fixed on the injunction that “it is a constitution we are expounding.” M’Culloch v. Maryland, <targetCase>4 Wheat. 316</targetCase>, 407. Although Winthrop, in his treatise, states that the Constitution “clearly distinguishes the military from the civil class as separate communities” and “recognizes no third class which is part civil and part military — military for a particular purpose or in a particular situation, and civil for all other purposes and in all other situations . . . ,” Winthrop, Military Law and Precedents (2d ed. 1896), 146, this Court, applying appropriate methods of constitutional interpretation, has long held, and in a variety of situations, that in the exercise of a power specifically granted to it, Congress may sweep in what may be necessary to make effective the explicitly worded power. See Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, especially 289 et seq. ; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 588. This is the significance of the Necessary and Proper Clause, which is not to be considered so much a separate clause in Art. I, § 8, as an integral part of each of the preceding 17 clauses. Only thus may be avoided a strangling literalness in construing a document that is not an enumeration of static rules but the living framework of government designed for an undefined future. M’Culloch v. Maryland, <targetCase>4 Wheat. 316</targetCase>; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 530-531. Everything that may be deemed, as the exercise of an allowable judgment by Congress, to fall fairly within the *44 conception conveyed by the power given to Congress “To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces” is constitutionally within that legislative grant and not subject to revision by the independent judgment of the Court. To be sure, every event or transaction that bears some relation to “the land and naval Forces” does not ipso facto come within the tolerant conception of that legislative grant. The issue in these cases involves regard for considerations not dissimilar to those involved in a determination under the Due Process Clause. Obviously, the practical situations before us bear some relation to the military. Yet the question for this Court is not merely whether the relation of these women to the “land and naval Forces” is sufficiently close to preclude the necessity of finding that Congress has been arbitrary in its selection of a particular method of trial. For, although we must look to Art.