**Lead Opinion**
In Wilcox, the Court held that embezzled money does not constitute taxable income to the embezzler in the year of the embezzlement under § 22 (a) of the internal Revenue Code of 1939, Six years later, this Court held, in Rutkin v. United States, 343 U. S. 130, that extorted money does constitute taxable income to the extortionist in the year that the money is received under § 22 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. In Rutkin, the Court did not overrule Wilcox, but stated: “Wé do not reach in this case the factual situation involved in Commissioner v. Wilcox, 327 U. S. 404. We limit that case to its facts. There embezzled funds were held not to constitute taxable income to the embezzler under § 22 (a).” Id., at 138. 6 However, examination of the reasoning used in Rutkin leads us inescapably to the conclusion that Wilcox was thoroughly devitalized. The basis for the Wilcox decision was “that a taxable gain is conditioned upon (1) the presence of a claim of right to the alleged gain and (2) the absence of a definite, *216 unconditional obligation to repay or return that which would otherwise constitute a gain. Without some bona fide legal or equitable claim, even though it be contingent or contested in nature, the taxpayer cannot be said to have received any gain or profit within the reach of §22 (a).” Commissioner v. <targetCase>Wilcox, supra</targetCase>, at p. 408. Since Wilcox embezzled the money, held it “without any semblance of a bona fide claim of right,” ibid., and therefore “was at all times under an unqualified duty and obligation to repay the money to his employer,” ibid., the Court found that the money embezzled was not includible within “gross income.” But, Rutkin’s legal claim was no greater than that of Wilcox. It was specifically found “that petitioner had no basis for his claim . . . and that he obtained it by extortion.” Rutkin v. United States, supra, at p. 135. Both Wilcox and Rutkin obtained the money by means of a criminal act; neither had a bona fide claim of right to the funds.