**Dissenting Opinion**
*179 Later, the right to counsel was extended to all felony-cases. 14 The Court has also ruled, for example, that “due process” means a speedy process, so that liberty will not be long restricted prior to an adjudication, and evidence of fact will not become stale; 15 that in a system committed to the resolution of issues of fact by adversary proceedings the right to confront opposing witnesses must be guaranteed; 16 and that if issues of fact are tried to a jury, fairness demands a jury impartially selected. 17 That these requirements are fundamental to procedural fairness hardly needs redemonstration. In all of these instances, the right guaranteed against the States by the Fourteenth Amendment was one that had also been guaranteed against the Federal Government by one of the first eight Amendments. The logically critical thing, however, was not that the rights had been found in the Bill of Rights, but that they were deemed, in the context of American legal history, to be fundamental. This was perhaps best explained by Mr. Justice Cardozo, speaking for a Court that included Chief Justice Hughes and Justices Brandéis and Stone, in Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319: “If the Fourteenth Amendment has absorbed them, the process of absorption has had its source in the belief that neither liberty nor justice would exist if they were sacrificed.” Id., at 326. Referring to Powell v. <targetCase>Alabama, supra</targetCase>, Mr. Justice Cardozo continued: “The decision did not turn upon the fact that the benefit of counsel would have been guaranteed to *180 the defendants by the provisions of the Sixth Amendment if they had been prosecuted in a federal court. The decision turned upon the fact that in the particular situation laid before us in the evidence the benefit of counsel was essential to the substance of a hearing.” Id., at 327. Mr. Justice Cardozo then went on to explain that the Fourteenth Amendment did not impose on each State every rule of procedure that some other State, or the federal courts, thought desirable, but only those rules critical to liberty: “The line of division may seem to be wavering and broken if there is a hasty catalogue of the cases on the one side and the other. Reflection and analysis will induce a different view. There emerges the perception of a rationalizing principle which gives to discrete instances a proper order and coherence. The right to trial by jury and the immunity from prosecution except as the result of an indictment may have value and importance. Even so, they are not of the very essence of a scheme of ordered liberty.