**Lead Opinion**
Indeed, evidence obtained by a state officer by means which would constitute an unlawful search and seizure under the Fourth Amendment to the Federal Constitution is nonetheless admissible in a state court, Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25, while such evidence, if obtained by a federal officer, would be clearly inadmissible in a federal court. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383.” Ibid. The fact that a state official would be violating the express terms of the federal statute by the very act of divulging the intercepted communications as evidence for the prosecution at the trial, the Court in Schwartz said, was “simply an additional factor for a state to consider in formulating a rule of evidence for use in its own courts.” Ibid. But in Benanti v. United States, 355 U. S. 96, five years later, the Court returned to the teaching of Nardone in giving emphatic recognition to the language of the statute that itself makes illegal the divulgence of intercepted communications. In Benanti the Court held inadmissible in a federal trial communications that had been intercepted by state officers. 7 “Section 605,” the Court said, “contains an express, absolute prohibition against the divulgence of intercepted communications.” 355 U. S., at 102. *385 After the Benanti decision, therefore, the only remaining support for Schwartz v. Texas, supra, was the holding in Wolf v. <targetCase>Colorado, supra</targetCase>, that state courts, unlike federal courts, were free to decide for themselves whether to condone violations of federal law by accepting the products of such violations as evidence. That doctrinal underpinning of the Schwartz decision was, of course, completely removed by Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U. S. 643, which overruled Wolf and squarely held that evidence obtained by state officers in an unreasonable search is inadmissible in a state criminal trial. In view of the Nardone and Benanti decisions, 8 the doctrine of Schwartz v. Texas cannot survive the demise of Wolf v. <targetCase>Colorado, supra</targetCase>. In the Mapp case, the Court in overruling Wolf imposed a judicially devised exclusionary rule in order to insure that a State could not adopt rules of evidence calculated to permit the invasion of rights protected by federal organic law. In the present case the federal law itself explicitly protects intercepted communications from divulgence, in a court or any other place. But the decision we reach today is not based upon language and doctrinal symmetry alone. It is buttressed as well by the “imperative of judicial integrity.” Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206, 222. 9 Under our Consti *386 tution no court, state or federal, may serve as an accomplice in the willful transgression of “the Laws of the United States,” laws by which “the Judges in every State [are] bound . .