**Lead Opinion**
It does not reach the former except through the latter. The officer or person who serves it does not unbar the prison doors, and set the prisoner free, but the court relieves him by compelling the oppressor to release his constraint. The whole force of the writ is spent upon the respondent.” In the Matter of Jackson, 15 Mich. 417, 439-440 (1867), quoted with approval in Ex parte Endo, 323 U. S. 283, 306 (1944). See also Ahrens v. Clark, 335 U. S., at 196-197 (Rutledge, J., dissenting). Read literally, the language of § 2241 (a) requires nothing more than that the court issuing the writ have jurisdiction over the custodian. So long as the custodian can be reached by service of process, the court can issue a writ “within its jurisdiction” requiring that the prisoner be brought before the court for a hearing on his claim, or requiring that he be released outright from custody, even if the prisoner himself is confined outside the court’s territorial jurisdiction. Nevertheless, there is language in our opinion in Ahrens v. <targetCase>Clark, supra</targetCase>, indicating that the prisoner’s presence within the territorial confines of the district is an invariable prerequisite to the exercise of the District Court’s habeas corpus jurisdiction. In Ahrens, 120 German nationals confined at Ellis Island, New York, pending deportation sought habeas corpus on the principal ground that the removal orders exceeded the President’s statutory authority under the Alien Enemy Act of 1798. *496 They filed their petitions in the District Court for the District of Columbia, naming as respondent the Attorney General of the United States. Construing the statutory predecessor to § 2241 (a), we held that the phrase, “within their respective jurisdictions,” precluded the District Court for the District of Columbia from inquiring into the validity of the prisoners’^ detention at Ellis Island, and we therefore affirmed the dismissal of the petitions on jurisdictional grounds. Our decision in Ahrens rested on the view that Congress’ paramount concern was the risk and expense attendant to the “production of prisoners from remote sections, perhaps thousands of miles from the District Court that issued the writ. The opportunities for escape afforded by travel, the cost of transportation, the administrative burden of such an undertaking negate such a purpose.” 335 U. S., at 191. And we found support for that assumption in the legislative history of the Act.