**Lead Opinion**
See Darr v. Burford, 339 U. S. 200, 204-206 (1950), and the case which overruled it, Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 417-420 (1963). See also Ex parte Royall, supra, at 251-252; Ex parte Hawk, 321 U. S. 114 (1944); cf. Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971); Stefanelli v. Minard, 342 U. S. 117 (1951). The fundamental interests underlying the exhaustion doctrine have been fully satisfied in petitioner's situation. He has already presented his federal constitutional claim of a present denial of a speedy trial to the courts of Kentucky. The state courts rejected the claim, apparently on the ground that since he had once escaped from custody the Commonwealth should not be obligated to incur the risk of another escape by returning him for trial. Petitioner exhausted all available state court opportunities to establish his position that the prior escape did not obviate the Commonwealth’s duty under Smith v. <targetCase>Hooey, supra</targetCase>. Moreover, petitioner made no effort to abort a state proceeding or to disrupt the orderly functioning of state judicial processes. He comes to federal court, not in an effort to forestall a state prosecution, but to enforce the Commonwealth’s obligation to provide him with a state court forum. He delayed his application for federal relief until the state courts had conclusively determined that his prosecution was temporarily moribund. Since petitioner began serving the second' of two 10-year Alabama sentences in March 1972, the revival of the prosecution may be delayed until as late as 1982. A federal habeas corpus action at this time and under these circumstances *492 does not jeopardize any legitimate interest of federalism. 5 Respondent apparently shares that view since it specifically concedes that petitioner has exhausted all available state remedies, Tr. of Oral Arg. 41. In the case before us, the Court of Appeals held — not surprisingly, in view of the considerations discussed above — that even though petitioner had chosen the wrong forum, his speedy trial claim was one “which he is legally entitled to assert at this time under Peyton v. Rowe, 391 U. S. 54 (1968).” 454 F. 2d, at 146. And the District Court, which upheld on the merits petitioner's speedy *493 trial claim, necessarily adopted that view. Indeed, the great majority of lower federal courts which have considered the question since Smith v. <targetCase>Hooey, supra</targetCase>, have reached this same, and indisputably correct, conclusion. 6 We emphasize that nothing we have said would permit the derailment of a pending state proceeding by an attempt to litigate constitutional defenses prematurely in federal court. The contention in dissent that our decision converts federal habeas corpus into “a pretrial-motion forum for state prisoners,” wholly misapprehends today’s holding. III Accordingly, we turn to the determination of the forum in which the petition for habeas corpus should be brought. In terms of traditional venue considerations, the District Court for the Western District of Kentucky is almost surely the most desirable forum for the adjudication of the claim. 7 It is in Kentucky, where all of the material events took place, that the records and witnesses perti *494 nent to petitioner’s claim are likely to be found. And that forum is presumably no less convenient for the respondent and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, than for the petitioner.