**Dissenting Opinion**
From Alabama, petitioner requested Kentucky authorities to ask the Alabama authorities to de *503 liver him to Kentucky so that petitioner could be tried on the Kentucky indictment. No action was taken on this request, and the Kentucky Supreme Court refused to issue a writ of mandamus requiring Kentucky authorities to request that Alabama deliver petitioner for trial in Kentucky. Petitioner then filed the instant habeas corpus proceeding in Kentucky, contending that he was “in custody” of Kentucky authorities and that the “custody” was illegal because he had been denied his right to a speedy trial. Petitioner is not seeking to attack collaterally a state judgment of conviction in federal court. In substance, petitioner is seeking, prior to trial, to force the Commonwealth of Kentucky to litigate a question that otherwise could only be raised as an absolute defense in a state criminal proceeding against petitioner. II The first inquiry is whether a state prisoner can, prior to trial, raise the claim of the denial of a right to a speedy trial by petitioning a federal court for writ of habeas corpus. The Court reasons that since Peyton v. <targetCase>Rowe, supra</targetCase>, “discarded the prematurity doctrine,” ante, at 488, “petitioner is entitled to raise his speedy trial claim on federal habeas corpus.” Petitioner filed this petition alleging federal jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 2241, 2254. Section 2254 pertains only to a prisoner in custody. pursuant to a judgment of conviction of a state court; in the context of the attempt to assert a right to a speedy trial, there is simply no § 2254 trap to “ensnare” petitioner, such as the court below felt existed. The issue here is whether habeas corpus is warranted under § 2241 (c) (3); that section empowers district courts to issue the writ, inter alia, before a judgment is rendered in a criminal proceeding. It is in the context of an application for federal habeas *504 corpus by a state prisoner prior to any trial in a state court that the effect of the instant decision must be analyzed. The Court reasons that since Smith v. Hooey, 393 U. S. 374 (1969), held that a State must, consistent with the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments, “make a diligent, good-faith effort to bring” a prisoner to trial on a state indictment even though he is incarcerated in another jurisdiction, id., at 383, and, since Peyton v. <targetCase>Rowe, supra</targetCase>, overruled “the prematurity doctrine,” therefore, a prisoner can attack in a federal habeas corpus proceeding the validity of an indictment lodged against him in one State even though he is imprisoned in another. I cannot agree with this reasoning. In Smith, this Court held that a State must make an effort to try a person even though he was incarcerated in another jurisdiction. That case did not, however, involve federal habeas corpus. It came here on certiorari after the state court had denied a petition for a writ of mandamus seeking to have the underlying indictment dismissed. The Texas Supreme Court had ruled that- the state courts had no power to order the federal prisoner produced for trial on the state indictment. This Court reversed, holding that, in view of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendment guarantees of a speedy trial, the State must, after demand therefor, attempt to obtain the prisoner from the sovereignty with custody over the prisoner.