**Lead Opinion**
These requirements are essentially identical to those imposed upon private employers, although the Act does attempt to make some provision for public employment relationships which are without counterpart in the private sector, such as those presented by fire protection and law enforcement personnel. See 29 U. S. C. §207 (k) (1970 ed., Supp. IV). Challenging these 1974 amendments in the District Court, appellants sought both declaratory and injunc-tive relief against the amendments’ application to them, and a three-judge court was accordingly convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2282. That court, after hearing argument on the law from the parties, granted appel-lee Secretary of Labor’s motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief might be granted. The District Court stated it was “troubled” by appellants’ contentions that the amendments would intrude upon the States’ performance of essential governmental functions. The court went on to say that it considered their contentions “substantial and that it may well be that the Supreme Court will feel it appropriate to draw back from the far-reaching implications of [Maryland v. <targetCase>Wirtz, supra</targetCase>]; but that is a decision that only the Supreme Court can make, and as a Federal district court we feel obliged to apply the Wirtz opinion as it stands.” National League of Cities v. Brennan, 406 F. Supp, 826, 828 (DC 1974). *840 We noted probable jurisdiction in order to consider the important questions recognized by the District Court. 420 U. S. 906 (1975). 11 We agree with the District Court that the appellants' contentions are substantial. Indeed upon full consideration of the question we have decided that the “far-reaching implications” of Wirtz should be overruled, and that the judgment of the District Court must be reversed. II It is established beyond peradventure that the Commerce Clause of Art. I of the Constitution is a grant of plenary authority to Congress.