**Lead Opinion**
Stat. §46-613.01 (1978). That section provides: “Any person, firm, city, village, municipal corporation or any other entity intending to withdraw ground water from any well or pit located in the State of Nebraska and transport it for use in an adjoining state shall apply to the Department of Water Resources for a permit to do so. If the Director of Water Resources finds that the withdrawal of the ground water requested is reasonable, is not contrary to the conservation and use of ground water, and is not otherwise detrimental to the public welfare, he shall grant the permit if the state in which the water is to be used grants reciprocal rights to withdraw and transport ground water from that state for use in the State of Nebraska.” Appellee brought this action to enjoin appellants from transferring the water across the border without a permit. 2 The trial court rejected the defense that the statute imposed an undue burden on interstate commerce and granted the injunction. The Nebraska Supreme Court affirmed. <targetCase>208 Neb. 703</targetCase>, 305 N. W. 2d 614 (1981). It held that, under Nebraska law, ground water is not “a market item freely transferable for value among private parties, and therefore [is] not an article of commerce.” Id., at 705, 305 N. W. 2d, at *945 616. 3 The Chief Justice, while agreeing that the statutory criteria governing the transfer of water to an adjoining State did not violate the Commerce Clause, dissented on the narrow ground that appellee violated both the Federal and Nebraska Constitutions by attempting “to absolutely prohibit the transfer of water, without regard to its need or availability, based solely upon the acts of another state oyer which citizens of this state have no control.” Id., at 713, 305 N. W. 2d, at 620. I In holding that ground water is not an article of commerce, the Nebraska Supreme Court and appellee cite as controlling precedent Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349 (1908). In that case a New Jersey statute prohibited the interstate transfer of any surface water located within the State. 4 The Hudson County Water Co. nevertheless contracted with New York City to supply one of its boroughs with water from the Passaic River in New Jersey. The State Attorney General sought from the New Jersey courts an injunction against fulfillment of the contract.