**Dissenting Opinion**
Less than three years ago, in Long Island R. Co., supra, a unanimous Court reaffirmed the principles of National League of Cities but found them inapplicable to the regulation of a railroad heavily engaged in interstate commerce. The Court stated: “The key prong of the National League of Cities test applicable to this case is the third one [repeated and reformulated in Hodel], which examines whether ‘the States’ compliance with the federal law would directly impair their ability “to structure integral operations in areas of traditional governmental functions.”’” 455 U. S., at 684. The Court in that case recognized that the test “may at times be a difficult one,” ibid., but it was considered in that unanimous decision as settled constitutional doctrine. As recently as June 1, 1982, the five Justices who constitute the majority in these cases also were the majority in FERC v. Mississippi. In that case, the Court said: “In National League of Cities v. Usery, supra, for example, the Court made clear that the State’s regulation of its relationship with its employees is an ‘undoubted attribute of state sovereignty.’ 426 U. S., at 845. Yet, *559 by holding ‘unimpaired’ California v. Taylor, 353 U. S. 553 (1957), which upheld a federal labor regulation as applied to state railroad employees, 426 U. S., at 854, n. 18, National League of Cities acknowledged that not all aspects of a State’s sovereign authority are immune from federal control.” 456 U. S., at 764, n. 28. The Court went on to say that ev-en~where the requirements of the National League of Cities standard are met, “‘[t]here are situations in which the nature of the federal interest advanced may be such that it justifies state submission.’” Ibid., quoting <targetCase>Hodel, supra</targetCase>, at 288, n. 29. The joint federal/state system of regulation in FERC was such a “situation,” but there was no hint in the Court’s opinion that National League of Cities — or its basic standard — was subject to the infirmities discovered today. Although the doctrine is not rigidly applied to constitutional questions, “any departure from the doctrine of stare decisis demands special justification.” Arizona v. Rumsey, 467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984). See also Oregon v. Kennedy, 456 U. S. 667, 691-692, n. 34 (1982) (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment). In the present cases, the five Justices who compose the majority today participated in National League of Cities and the cases reaffirming it. 2 The stability of judicial decision, and with it respect for the authority of this Court, are not served by the precipitate overruling of multiple precedents that we witness in these cases. 3 Whatever effect the Court’s decision may have in weakening the application of stare decisis, it is likely to be less *560 important than what the Court has done to the Constitution itself.