**Lead Opinion**
would have been regarded as a novel exercise of legislative power.” Id,, at 297. For much the same reasons, the existence vel non of a tradition of federal involvement in a particular area does not provide an adequate standard for state immunity. Most of the Federal Government’s current regulatory activity originated less than 50 years ago with the New Deal, and a good portion of it has developed within the past two decades. The recent vintage of this regulatory activity does not dimmish the strength of the federal interest in applying regulatory standards to state activities, nor does it affect the strength of the States’ interest in being free from federal supervision. Although the Court’s intergovernmental tax-immunity decisions ostensibly have subjected particular state activities to federal taxation because those activities “ha[ve] been traditionally within [federal taxing] power from the beginning,” New York v. United States, 326 U. S., at 588 (Stone, C. J., concurring, joined by Reed, Murphy, and Burton, JJ. ), the Court has not in fact required federal taxes to have long historical records in order to be effective. The income tax at issue in <targetCase>Powers, supra</targetCase>, took effect less than a decade before the tax years for which it was challenged, while the federal tax whose application was *545 upheld in New York v. United States took effect in 1932 and was rescinded less than two years later. See Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S., at 222; Rakestraw, The Reciprocal Rule of Governmental Tax Immunity—A Legal Myth, 11 Fed. Bar J. 3, 34, n. 116 (1950). See, e. g., J. Choper, Judicial Review and the National Political Process 175-184 (1980); Wechsler, The Political Safeguards of Federalism: The Role of the States in the Composition and Selection of the National Government, 54 Colum. L. Rev. 543 (1954); La Pierre, The Political Safeguards of Federalism Redux: Intergovernmental Immunity and the States as Agents of the Nation, 60 Wash. U. L. Q.