**Lead Opinion**
Ibid. The court stated that this new information about the nature of respondent’s crimes and their impact on the victim, together with its observations of his “mental outlook on [the offenses] and [his] position during the trial,” convinced it that it was “proper to increase the sentence beyond that which was given to [him] on the plea bargain.” Id., at 30. The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed respondent’s convictions, as well as the life sentences imposed for burglary and sodomy, but remanded the rape conviction for resentencing. The Supreme Court of Alabama then granted respondent’s request for review of the burglary sentence, and reversed and remanded by a divided vote. Ex parte Smith, 557 So. 2d 13 (1988). The majority held that under our decision in North Carolina v. <targetCase>Pearce, supra</targetCase>, there can be no increase in sentence “upon reconviction at [a] second trial after the first conviction has been overturned on appeal and remanded for a new trial,” unless the increase is justified by “‘events subsequent to the first trial.’” 557 So. 2d, at 15. Because the majority thought the trial court had increased respondent’s sentence for the burglary conviction based on new information about events occurring prior to the imposition of the original sentence — e. g., new information about the nature of the crime and its effect on the victim — the majority held that Pearce required it to set aside that sentence. *798 The three dissenting justices argued that the Pearce presumption of vindictiveness did not apply where the original sentence is entered after a guilty plea. Id., at 16. In their view, a defendant “should not be allowed to receive sentence concessions in return for a guilty plea and then, after a successful attack on that plea, bind the State to its original sentencing bargain if he is later convicted after a trial.” Id., at 17. Were it otherwise, they argued, a defendant “could go to trial and chance an acquittal knowing he could receive a sentence no harsher than he was originally given.” Ibid.