**Lead Opinion**
As in Healy I, the Court of Appeals reversed. It held that the 1984 law (even as interpreted by the declaratory ruling), like its predecessor, violated the Commerce Clause by controlling the prices at which out-of-state shippers could sell beer in other States. First, and foremost, the court held that the Connecticut statute’s “purposeful interaction with border-state regulatory schemes” means that shippers cannot, as a practical matter, set prices based on market conditions in a border State without factoring in the effects of those prices on its future Connecticut pricing options. In re Beer Institute, 849 F. 2d 753, 760-761 (CA2 1988) (Healy II). Second, the Court of Appeals found that the 1984 statute unconstitutionally restricted the ability of out-of-state shippers *331 to offer volume discounts in the border States. Id., at 760. Furthermore, relying on <targetCase>Brown-Forman, supra</targetCase>, the court rejected appellants’ argument that the statute was a proper exercise of its regulatory authority under the Twenty-first Amendment. 849 F. 2d, at 761. We noted probable jurisdiction. 488 U. S. 954 (1988). II In deciding this appeal, we engage in our fourth expedition into the area of price-affirmation statutes. The Court first explored this territory in Seagram, where it upheld against numerous constitutional challenges a New York statute that required liquor-label owners or their agents to affirm that “ ‘the bottle and case price of liquor ... is no higher than the lowest price’ ” at which such liquor was sold “anywhere in the United States during the preceding month.” 384 U. S., at 39-40, quoting the New York law. The Court ruled that the mere fact that the New York statute was geared to appellants’ pricing policies in other States did not violate the Commerce Clause, because under the Twenty-first Amendment’s broad grant of liquor regulatory authority to the States, New York could insist that liquor prices offered to domestic wholesalers and retailers “be as low as prices offered elsewhere in the country.” Id., at 43. Although the appellant brand owners in Seagram had alleged that the New York law created serious discriminatory effects on their business outside New York, the Court considered these injuries too conjectural to support a facial challenge to the statute and suggested that the purported extraterritorial effects could be assessed in a case where they were clearly presented. Ibid. Eighteen years after Seagram, we summarily affirmed the Second Circuit’s judgment in Healy I, and then, another two years later, granted plenary review in <targetCase>Brown-Forman, supra</targetCase>. The New York law at issue in Brown-Forman required every liquor distiller or producer selling to wholesalers within the State to affirm that the prices charged for *332 every bottle or case of liquor were no higher than the lowest price at which the same product would be sold in any other State during the month covered by the particular affirmation. 476 U. S., at 576. Appellant Brown-Forman was a liquor distiller that offered “promotional allowances” to wholesalers purchasing Brown-Forman products. The New York Liquor Authority, however, did not allow Brown-Forman to operate its rebate scheme in New York and, moreover, determined for the purposes of the affirmation law that the promotional allowances lowered the effective price charged to wholesalers outside New York. Because other States with affirmation laws similar to New York’s did not deem the promotional allowances to lower the price charged to wholesalers, appellant argued that the New York law offered the company the Hob-son’s choice of lowering its New York prices, thereby violating the affirmation laws of other States, or of discontinuing the promotional allowances altogether. This, appellant alleged, amounted to extraterritorial regulation of interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause.