**Concurrence In Part Opinion**
4 I This Court first addressed the First Amendment in the prison context in Procunier v. Martinez, 416 U. S. 396 (1974). Prior lower court treatments had varied: some courts had maintained “a hands-off posture,” while others had required “demonstration of a ‘compelling state interest’ to justify censorship of prisoner mail.” Id., at 406. With characteristic wisdom Justice Powell, in his opinion for the Court, rejected both extremes. The difficulties of prison administration, he perceived, make the strict scrutiny that the First Amendment demands in other contexts inappropriate. 5 *423 See, e. g., First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 786 (1978); Elrod v. Burns, 427 U. S. 347, 362 (1976) (opinion of Brennan, J. ); Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447 (1969) (per curiam). Focusing not on the rights of prisoners, but on the “inextricably meshed” rights of nonprisoners “who have a particularized interest in communicating with them,” he wrote that an “undemanding standard of review” could not be squared with the fact “that the First Amendment liberties of free citizens are implicated in censorship of prisoner mail.” <targetCase>Martinez, supra</targetCase>, at 408, 409. Thus he chose an “intermediate” means of evaluating speech restrictions, 416 U. S., at 407, allowing censorship if it “further[ed] an important or substantial governmental interest unrelated to the suppression of expression,” and “the limitation of First Amendment freedoms [was] no greater than [was] necessary or essential,” id., at 413. “Prison officials may not censor inmate correspondence simply to eliminate unflattering or unwelcome opinions or factually inaccurate stat ements,” Justice Powell stressed. Ibid. Censorship might be permitted, however, to ensure “the preservation of internal order and discipline, the maintenance of institutional security against escape or unauthorized entry, and the rehabilitation of the prisoners.” Id., at 412 (footnote omitted). Prison administrators did not have “to show with certainty that adverse consequences would flow from the failure to censor a particular letter,” but “any regulation or practice that restricts inmate correspondence must be generally necessary to protect one or more of the legitimate governmental interests identified above.” Id., at 414. 6 In the 15 years since Martinez was decided, lower courts routinely have applied its standard to review limitations not only on correspondence between inmates and private citi *424 zens, but also on communications — such as the newsletters, magazines, and books at issue — between inmates and publishers.