**Dissenting Opinion**
The trustee also alleged in a separate motion that petitioner had, despite requests, failed to turn over all the books and records relating to the bankruptcy estate. Petitioner filed a response denying the allegation, and asserting that he had produced the requested documents at the behest of a previous trustee. Petitioner was then indicted under 18 U. S. C. § 1001, and a jury found that each of these responses was a lie. Today, the majority jettisons a 40-year-old unanimous decision of this Court, United States v. Bramblett, 348 U. S. 503 (1955), under which petitioner’s conviction plainly would have been upheld. It does so despite an admission that the Court’s reading of § 1001 in Bramblett was “not completely implausible,” ante, at 706. In replacing Bramblett’s plausible, albeit arguably flawed, interpretation of the statute with its own “sound” reading, the Court disrespects the traditionally stringent adherence to stare decisis in statutory decisions. Patterson v. McLean Credit Union, <targetCase>491 U. S. 164</targetCase>, 172 (1989); Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois, 431 U. S. 720, 736 (1977). The two reasons offered by the plurality in Part V of the opinion and the justification offered by the concurring opinion fall far short of the institutional hurdle erected by our past practice against overruling a decision of this Court interpreting an Act of Congress. The first reason is styled as an “intervening development in the law”; under it, decisions of Courts of Appeals that cannot be reconciled with our earlier precedent are treated as a basis for disavowing, not the aberrant Court of Appeals deci *719 sions, but, mirabile dictu our own decision! This novel corollary to the principle of stare decisis subverts the very principle on which a hierarchical court system is built. The second reason given is that there has been little or no reliance on our Bramblett decision; I believe that this ground is quite debatable, if not actually erroneous. Today’s decision harkens to the important reason behind the doctrine of stare decisis, but does not heed it. That doctrine is “a basic self-governing principle within the Judicial Branch, which is entrusted with the sensitive and difficult task of fashioning and preserving a jurisprudential system that is not based upon ‘an arbitrary discretion.’ ” Patterson, supra, at 172, citing The Federalist No.