**Dissenting Opinion**
Because Justice Iredell read the Judiciary Act of 1789 to have incorporated the common law, he did not even conclude that Congress would have to make a clear statement in order to override the common law’s recognition of sovereign immunity. Actually, he limited his conclusion to the narrower question whether an action of assumpsit would lie against a State, which he distinguished from the more general question whether a State can ever be sued. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 430 (1793). He did so because he recognized “that in England, certain judicial proceedings not inconsistent with the sovereignty, may take place against the Crown, but that an action of as-sumpsit will not lie,” and because he had “often found a great deal of confusion to arise from taking too large a view at once.” Ibid. In two sentences at the end of his lengthy opinion, Justice Iredell stated that his then-present view was that the Constitution would not permit a “compulsive suit against a State for the recovery of money.” Id., at 449. In light of Justice Iredell’s express statement that the only question before the Court was the propriety of an individual’s action for as-sumpsit against a State, an action which, of course, results in a money judgment, see n. 2, <targetCase>supra</targetCase>, this dicta should not be understood to state the general view that the Constitution bars all suits against unconsenting States. Moreover, even as to the limited question whether the Constitution permits actions for money judgments, Justice Iredell took pains to reserve ultimate judgment. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall., at 449. Thus, nothing in Justice Iredell’s two sentences of dicta provides a basis for concluding that Congress lacks the power to authorize the suit for the nonmonetary relief at issue here. In this respect, Chisholm v. Georgia should be understood to be of a piece with the debate over judicial power famously joined in Martin v. Hunter’s Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 337 (1816). There, too, the argument centered on whether Congress had the power to limit the seemingly expansive jurisdictional grant that Article III had conferred, not on whether Article III itself provided the relevant limitation.