**Lead Opinion**
The absence of any discussion of that power is particularly striking in light of the fact that the Framers virtually always were very specific about the exception to state sovereign immunity arising from a State’s consent to suit. See, e. g., The Federalist No. 81, pp. 487-488 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton) (“It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be amenable to the suit of an individual with *71 out its consent.... Unless, therefore, there is a surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention, it will remain with the States and the danger intimated must be merely ideal”) (emphasis in the original); 3 Elliot, supra, at 533 (J. Madison) (“It is not in the power of individuals to call any state into court.... [The Constitution] can have no operation but this:... if a state should condescend to be a party, this court may take cognizance of it”). This argument wholly disregards other methods of ensuring the States’ compliance with federal law: The Federal Government can bring suit in federal court against a State, see, e. g., United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621, 644-645 (1892) (finding such power necessary to the “permanence of the Union”); an individual can bring suit against a state officer in order to ensure that the officer’s conduct is in compliance with federal law, see, e. g., Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123 (1908); and this Court is empowered to review a question of federal law arising from a state-court decision where a State has consented to suit, see, e. g., Cohens v. Virginia, <targetCase>6 Wheat. 264</targetCase> (1821). Justice Stevens, in his dissenting opinion, makes two points that merit separate response. First, he contends that no distinction may be drawn between state sovereign immunity and the immunity enjoyed by state and federal officials. But even assuming that the latter has no constitutional foundation, the distinction is clear: The Constitution specifically recognizes the States as sovereign entities, while government officials enjoy no such constitutional recognition. Second, Justice Stevens criti- *72 eizes our prior decisions applying the “clear statement rule,” suggesting that they were based upon an understanding that Article I allowed Congress to abrogate state sovereign immunity. His criticism, however, ignores the fact that many of those cases arose in the context of a statute passed under the Fourteenth Amendment, where Congress’ authority to abrogate is undisputed. See, e. g., Quern v. Jordan, 440 U. S. 332 (1979).