**Combined Opinion**
 exercise of the right of earlier, redemption is to stop the obligation to pay future interest.  And as against one choosing for any purpose of his own to-retain his bond as a continuing security for the value it always represents, having impressed upon it by the law of "its creation the faculty of passing from hand to hand as money, and therefore just as useful in the pursuits of trade and the exchanges of commerce and banking as so much money in the form of coin or bank notes, and more convenient because more portable, no such presumption can be entertained on the ground that its continued circulation is not in the due course of business, that it has fully performed all its intended functions, *501 and that it has been in any sense dishonored by a refusal on ^the .part of the obligor to- fulfil its obligation.  On the contrarjq supposing the purchaser bound to know, what in fact does not appear on its face, that the bond has been called for redemption under penalty of a stoppage of interest after three months, the very notice, which, it is said, discredits his title, is in fact an advertisement, not that the maker has any ground to refuse payment, but that the previous holder preferred to hold the security for the money rather than to accept the money which it represents.  As we have seen, the true effect to be given to the exercise of the right of redemption within the period of absolute payment is to make the bonds payable during that interval, on demand, but without interest, after three months from the maturity of the call. But the rule, as to ordinary negotiable paper, payable on demand, is that it is not due, without demand, until after the lapse of a reasonable time within which to make demand ; and what the length of that reasonable time is, may vary according to the circumstances of particular cases, and must be governed very largely by the intentions of the parties, as manifested in the character of the paper itself, and the purposes for which it is known to have been created and put in circulation.  It is said by Baron Parke, in Brooks v. Mitchell, 9 M. & W. 15, that “ a promissory note, payable on demand, is intended to be a continuing Security.” And in Losee v. Dunkin, 7 Johns. 70 , it is said: “ The demand must be made in reasonable time, and that will depend upon the circumstances of the case and the situation of the parties.” "In reference to the bonds involved in this litigation, we have no hesitation in saying that, at the time the title of the purchasers was acquired, no unreasonable length of time had elapsed after the maturity, of the call. On the contrary, we think any holder had a right, without prejudice, except as to loss of interest, to wait without demand for the whole period, at the expiration of which the bond was unconditionally payable.  The fact that interest was to cease to accrue three months after the date of call, had no tendency to discredit the bonds or affect the title of a bóna fide purchaser for value in the due *502 course of trade.  While it has been held that a note, the principal of which is payable by instalments, is overdue when the first instalment is overdue and unpaid, and is thereby subject to all equities between the original parties, Vinton v. King, 4 Allen, 562 , yet, it is said by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in National Bank of North America v. Kirby, 108 Mass. 497, 501 , “We are referred to no case in which it has been held that failure to pay interest, standing alone, is to be regarded sufficient in law to throw such discredit upon the principal security upon which it is due, as to subject the holder to the full extent of the security, to antecedent equities.” “ To hold otherwise,” said this court in Cromwell v. County of Sac, 96 U. S. 51, 58 , “ would throw discredit upon a large class of securities issued by municipal and private corporations, having years to run, with interest payable annually or semi-annually.” And the doctrine was reaffirmed in Railway Co. v. Sprague, <citedDecision>103 U. S. 756</citedDecision> .  These were cases where non-payment of interest was in breach of the contract and constituted a default.  It is much stronger,-in its application here, where the obligation to pay interest ceases because that is the contract, to which the holder of the bond has consented and to which he submits, because he prefers to hold a security, although not bearing interest, rather than to surrender it at once.  But an adequate and complete view of the nature and function of the right of redemption reserved in these bonds, and of its intended effect upon the rights of the parties under the contract, cannot be had without considering it in its actual operation and execution.  The clause which makes the bonds redeemable was not a casual provision occurring in a single obligation, but was an effective and significant instrument in a series of great financial transactions.  The five-twenty bonds issued under the acts of March 3,1865, 13 Stat. 668 , and April 12, 1866, 14 Stat. 31 , as we are informed by public official documents, amounted to $958,483,550, nearly a thousand millions of dollars.  On March 1, 1871, the nearest date prior to the commencement of operations under the refunding act of 1870, the follow- ■ ing amounts of six per cent. 5-20 bonds were outstanding: *503 Five-twenties of 1862.........................$493,738,350 Five-twenties of March, 1864.................. 3,102,60„0 Five-twenties of June, 1864.................... 102,028,900 Five-twenties of 1865 .......... 182,112,450 Act March 3, J Consols of 1865............... 264,619,700 1865.