**Combined Opinion**
Mr. Justice Harlan, with, whom concurred Mr. Justice Brewer and Mr. Justice Brown, dissenting.  Mr. Justice Brewer, Mr. Justice Brown and myself being unable to concur in the opinion just rendered, the grounds of • our dissent will be stated.  The charter of the city of Brenham, granted in 1873, provided that “ the city council shall have the power and authority to borrow, for general purposes, not exceeding fifteen thousand dollars, on the credit of said city; ” also, that the “ bonds of the corporation of the city of Brenham shall not be subject to tax under this act.” Special Laws of Texas, pp. 14 and 23.  Under the authority conferred by this charter the city council in 1879 passed an ordinance, entitled, “An ordinance to provide for the issue and sale of fifteen thousand dollars in coupon bonds of the city, to borrow money for general purposes.” Bonds, negotiable • in form, and to the full amount authorized by the ordinance, were issued by the city in 1879, and the coupons held by the German-American Bank were from the bonds so issued.  The court does not hold that tile issuing of these bonds was in violation of the constitution of Texas adopted in 1876.  But it does hold that, while the city, under .its power to borrow, could give to the lender non-negotiable paper as a “ voucher ” for the repayment of the money borrowed, it could not legally issue negotiable instruments or bonds as evidence of the loan.  This view is conceded to be in conflict with Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654 , and Mitchell v. Burlington, <citedDecision>4 Wall. 270</citedDecision> .  But it is said that later *190 adjudications of this court have, in effect, overruled those ■cases.  We cannot give our assent to the doctrine announced in the present case. Nor—-we submit with ,some confidence —is that doctrine sustained by any decision of this court which has been cited.  What was the case of Rogers v. Burlington?  Besides the general powers appertaining to municipal corporations, the city of Burlington had express power, by its charter, “ to borrow money for any public purpose,” the matter being first submitted to popular vote.  The people having voted, by the requisite majority, in favor of issuing and lending $15,000 in the bonds of the city to a particular railroad company, bonds for that amount, negotiable in form, were issued.  The court held the construction of a railroad -to be a public purpose, within the meaning of the charter of the city, and that it made no difference whether the bonds were sold in the market by the officers of the municipality, or were first delivered to the company and sold by its agents for the same purpose.  u Technically speaking,” the court observed, “ it may be said that the transaction, as between the company and the defendants, was, in form, a contract of lending; but as between the defendants and the persons who purchased the bonds in the market it was undeniably a contract of borrowing money; and the same remark applies to the- transaction in its practical and legal effect upon all subsequent holders of the securities who have since become such for value, and in the usual course of business.” The minority dissented, not upon the ground that an express power in a municipal corporation to' borrow money did not give authority to execute negotiable instruments for the money borrowed —■ although that question was upon the very face of the case — but upon the ground that the transaction was not one of borrowing money.  Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the minority, said: “ Here the authority conferred is to borrow money ; yet no money was borrowed, but the bonds of the city were lent.  Borrowing money and lending credit are not convertible terms.  The two things which they indicate are essentially distinct and different.” Mr. Justice Mil *191 ler, in a separate dissenting opinion; called attention to the fact that the Supreme Court of Iowa had then recently held the bonds, involved in that suit, to be void, upon the ground that the transaction “ was a loan of credit, and not a borrowing of money.” The principle announced in Rogers v. Burlington was applied in Mitchell v. Burlington, <citedDecision>4 Wall. 270</citedDecision> .  The cases, decided since Rogers v. Burlington, which have been cited, in the opinion of the court, as announcing the doctrine that an express power given to a municipal corporation to borrow money does not authorize the execution of negotiable instruments for the money so borrowed, are: Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 570, 572 ; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, 406 ; Concord v. Robinson, 121 U. S. 165, 167 ; Kelley v. Milan, 127 U. S. 139, 150 ; Morton v. Dyersburg, 127 U. S. 160, 175 ; Young v. Clarendon, 132 U. S. 340 ; Hill v. Memphis, 134 U. S. 198, 203 ; and Merrill v. Monticello, 138 U. S. 673, 686, 687 .  In Police Jury v. Britton , it appeared that a police jury, in a parish of Louisiana, charged with the supervision and repair of roads, bridges, causeways, dikes, levees and other highways, was prohibited by statute from contracting any debt or pecuniary liability without fully providing in the ordinance creating the debt the means of paying the principal and interest of the debt so contracted.  And the question arose as to whether it could rightfully issue negotiable bonds to take the place of certain orders previously given by it for work done on levees in the parish.  The cáse involved no question as to the scope and effect of an express power in the parish to borrow money.  Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, after observing that the police jury had no express authority to issue bonds, and that, if it.  existed, it must be implied from the general powers of local administration with which they were invested, said: “We have, therefore, the question directly presented in this case whether the trustees or representative officers of a parish, county or other local jurisdiction, invested with the usual powers of administration in specific matters, and the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, have an implied authority to *192 issue negotiable securities, payable in future, of such a character as to be unimpeachable in the hands of bona fide holders, "for.