**Combined Opinion**
Mr. Justice Gray, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court. This certificate distinctly presents for decision the question (argued, but not decided, when this case was before this court at a former term, reported in <citedDecision>144 U. S. 653</citedDecision> ) of the construction of the will of Jacob Dawson, the material part of which was as follows: “To my beloved wife, Editha J. Dawson, I give and bequeath all my estate, real and personal, of which I may die *376 seized, the.  same to be and remain hers, with full power, right and authority to dispose of the same as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow, upon the express condition, however, that if she should marry again, then it is my will that all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain, should go to my surviving children, share and share alike.” By the statutes of Nebraska, “every devise of land in any will hereafter made shall be construed to convey all the estate of the devisor therein, which he could lawfully devise, unless it shall clearly appear by the will that the devisor untended to convey a less estate;” and “the term ‘heirs,’ or other technical words of inheritance, shall not be necessary to create or convey an estate in fee simple.” Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 23, § 124; c. 73, § 49.  In the opinion delivered by this court in a former case between different parties, and concerning other land, the second of those sections was not Referred to, and the first was imperfectly quoted (omitting the word “ clearly ” before “appear”) and was treated as of no weight; and it was held, reversing the decision of Judge McCrary in 2 McCrary, 370 , that by the true construction of the will the widow “took under it an estate for life in. the testator’s lands, subject to be divested on her ceasing to be his widow, with power to convey her qualified life estate only; ” and that “ her estate in the land and that of her grantees- determined on her marriage with Pickering.” Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 299, 300 .  The Supreme Court of Nebraska, in a subsequent case, considered those sections of the statute as controlling the construction of the will, and making it clear that the widow took an estate in fee.  Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 321, 322.  That court was also of opinion that the gift over to the children passed only that portion of the estate, real or personal, not disposed of by the widow during her widowhood; and upon the whole case concluded “ that the intention of the testator was to empower his widow to convey all of his real and personal estate, if she saw fit to do so, and, as she had exercised this right and power before her remarriage, the *377 grantees under her deeds acquired all the title of the testator to such lands.” 25 Nebraska, 327, 328, 334.  The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State appears to have been formed upon full consideration of the difficulties of.