**Combined Opinion**
 The power of the States to fix.  reasonable intrastate rates is too well settled at this time to need further discussion or a citation of authority to support it.  In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263 , this court held that a “party rate ticket” for the transportation of ten or more persons at a less rate than that charged a single individual did not make a discrimination against an individual charged more for the same service, or amount to an unjust or unreasonable discrimination within the meaning of the Act to Regulate Commerce.  In the course of the opinion the *11 right to issue tickets at reduced rates good for limited periods upon the principle of commutation was fully recognized.  See pp. 277, 278, 279, 280.  Having the conceded authority to regulate intrastate rates, we perceive no reason why such power may not be exercised through duly authorized commissions and rates fixed with reference to the particular character of the service to be rendered.  In Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605, 608 , after making reference to Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, <citedDecision>236 U. S. 585</citedDecision> , this court said: “It was recognized [in the <citedDecision>North Dakota</citedDecision> Case] that the State has a broad field for the exercise .of its discretion in prescribing reasonable rates for common carriers within its jurisdiction; that it is not necessary that there should be uniform rates or the same percentage of profit on every sort of business; and that there is abundant room for reasonable classification and the adaptation of rates to various groups of services.” That the State may fix maximum rates governing one-way passenger travel is conceded.  Having the general authority to fix rates of a reasonable nature, we can see no good reason for denying to the State the power to exercise this authority in such manner as to fix rates for special services different from those charged for the .general service.  In our opinion the rate for a single fare for passengers generally may be varied so as to fit the particular and different service which involves, as do commutation rates, the disposition of tickets to passengers who have a peculiar relation to the service.  The service rendered in selling a ticket for one continuous trip is quite different from that involved in disposing of commutation tickets where a single ticket may cover 100 rides or more within a limited period.  The labor and cost of making such tickets as well as the cost of selling them is less than *12 is involved in making and selling single tickets for single journeys to one-way passengers.  The service rendered the commuter, carrying little baggage and riding many times on a single ticket for short distances, is of a special character and differs from that given the single-way passenger.  It is well known that there have grown up near to all the large cities of this country suburban communities which require this peculiar service, and as to which the railroads have themselves, as in this instance, established commutation rates.