**Combined Opinion**
 The court, disregarding any question of want of due care on the part of respondent, instructed the jury that if it found that the false notice by McDonnell to petitioner was given within the scope of his authority and that petitioner had in fact been induced by the false statement to take up the draft, it should return a verdict for the petitioner.  Judgment on the verdict for petitioner- was reversed by the court of appeals on the ground that an employer is not liable for the false statements of an agent made solely to effect a fraudulent design for his own benefit and-not in behalf of the employer or his business, the court saying (p. 884): “ Under the general rule prevailing in the federal courts an employer is not liable for such conduct of his employee, Friedlander v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 130 U. S. 416 ...” In the Friedlander case the action was brought to recover for the non-delivery of merchandise, ptirported to have been received by the defendant carrier and covered by a bill of lading issued by its agent, admittedly a-uthor *354 ilzed to issue bills of lading in the usual course of business.  The bill had been fraudulently issued by the agent for his own enrichment and the described merchandise had not, in fact, been received by the defendant or its agent.  The court held that there was no implied authority in the agent to issue bills of lading for merchandise not actually received, and that there was consequently no contractual obligation on the part of the carrier.  As the only act of the agent complained of, the issuance of the bill of lading, was thus held not to be within the scope of his.  authority, that holding was sufficient to dispose of the entire case. To this extent the case has been often cited and followed.  Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Nat. Park Bk., 188 Ala. 109, 119 ; Roy & Roy v. Northern Pacific Ry Co., <citedDecision>42 Wash. 572, 576</citedDecision> ; contra, Bank of Batavia v. New York, etc. R. R. Co., 106 N. Y. 195 .  But the court in the Friedlander case went on to say (p. 425): "... nor is the action maintainable on the ground of tort.  ‘ The general rule ’, said Willes, J., in Barwick v. English Joint Stock Bank, L. R. 2 Ex. 259, 265, ‘ is that the master is answerable for every such wrong of the servant or agent;as is committed in the course of the service and for the master’s benefit, though no express command or privity of the master be proved.’ See also Limpus v. London General Omnibus Co., 1 H. & C. 526.  The fraud was in respect to a matter within the scope of Easton’s employment or outside of it.  It was not within it, for bills of lading could only be issued for merchandise delivered; and being without it, the company, which derived and could derive no benefit from the unauthorized and fraudu-.  lent act, cannot be made responsible.  British Mutual Banking Co. v. Charnwood Forest Railway Co., 18 Q. B. D. 714.” The rule, applied in that case, that the authority of an agent to issue bills of lading is impliedly conditioned upon the receipt of the merchandise described in the bill, has *355 now been modified by statute.