**Combined Opinion**
 In 1930 appellees, construing the laws to require the inclusion of all receipts, without regard to the source of the gas furnished, applied the prescribed rate to the amounts theretofore treated as receipts from interstate business, and demanded from appellant payment of the sums so arrived at together with ’ penalties prescribed for failure to pay excise taxes when due.  The question is whether the state statute, construed to include the amounts reported as receipts from interstate business, operates directly to regulate or burden interstate commerce.  *470 Admittedly the exaction is not a tax on property nor in lieu of a property tax. The statute calls it, and in fact it is, a tax for the privilege of carrying on intrastate business.  Receipts from interstate business are expressly excluded from the calculation.  It is elementary that a State can neither lay a tax on the act of engaging in interstate commerce nor on gross receipts therefrom.  Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330, 338 .  New Jersey Tel. Co. v. Tax Board, <citedDecision>280 U. S. 338, 346</citedDecision> .  And, while a State may require payment of an occupation tax by one engaged in both intrastate and interstate commerce, the exaction in order to be valid must be imposed solely on account of the intrastate business without enhancement because of the interstate business done, and it must appear that one engaged exclusively in interstate business would not be subject to the imposition and that the taxpayer could discontinue the intrastate business without withdrawing also from the interstate business.  Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 170-171 , and cases cited.  The transportation of gas from wells outside Ohio by the lines of the producing companies to the state line and thence by means of appellant’s high pressure transmission lines to their connection with its local systems is essentially national—not local—in character and is interstate commerce within as well as without that State.  The mere fact that the title or the custody of the gas passes while it is en route from State to State is not determinative of the question where interstate commerce ends.  Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, 249 U. S. 239 , 245.  Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, 307-309 .