**Combined Opinion**
 That this court and the other federal courts, in this situation and by right of their own powers, may decline to enforce the ancient rule- of the common law under conditions as they now exist we think is not fairly open to doubt.  In Hurtado v. California., 110 U.S. 516, 530 , this court, after suggesting that it was better not to go too far back into antiquity for the best securities of our liberties, said: “ It is more consonant to the true philosophy of our historical legal institutions to say that the spirit of personal liberty and individual right, which they embodied, was preserved and developed by a progressive growth and wise adaptation to new circumstances and situations of the forms and processes found fit to give, from time to time, new expression and greater effect to modem ideas of self-government.  “ This, flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation is the peculiar boast and excellence of the common law. *383 “.  .  .  and as it was the characteristic principle of the common law to draw its inspiration from every fountain of justice, we are not to assume that the sources of its supply have been exhausted.  On the contrary, we should expect that the new and various experiences of our own situation and system will mould and shape it into new and not less useful forms.” Compare Holden v. Hardy, <citedDecision>169 U.S. 366, 385-387</citedDecision> .  To concede this capacity for growth and change in the Common law by drawing “ its inspiration from every fountain of justice,” and at the same time to say that- the courts of this country are forever bound to perpetuate such of its rules as, by every reasonable test, are found to be neither wise nor just, because we have once adopted them as suited to our situation and institutions at a particular time, is to deny to the common law in the place of its adoption a “flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation ” which was “ the peculiar boast and excellence ” of the system in the place of its origin.  The final question to which we are thus brought is not that of the power of the federal courts to amend or repeal any given rule or principle of the common law, for they neither have nor claim that power, but it is the question of the power of these courts, in the complete absence of congressional legislation on the subject, to declare and effectuate, upon common law principles, what is the present rule upon a given subject in the light of fundamentally altered conditions, without regard to what has previously been declared and practiced.  It has been said so often as tr have become axiomatic that the common law is not immutable but flexible, and by its -own principles adapts itself to varying conditions.  In Ketelsen v. Stilz 184 Ind. 702 ; 111 N.E. 423 , the supreme court of that state, after pointing out that the common law of England was based upon usages, customs .and institutions of the English *384 people as declared from time to time by the courts, said (p.707): “ The rules so deduced from this system, however, were continually changing and expanding with the progress of society in the application of this system to more diversified circumstances and under more advanced periods.  The common law by its own principles adapted itself to varying conditions and modified its own rules so as to serve the ends of justice as prompted by a course of reasoning which was guided by these generally accepted truths.  One of its oldest maxims was that where the reason of a rule ceased, the rule also ceased, and it logically followed that when it occurred to the courts that a particular rule had never been founded upon reason, and that no reason existed in support thereof, that rule likewise ceased, and perhaps another sprang up in its place which'was based upon reason and justice as then conceived.