**Combined Opinion**
 8 Finally, we are obliged to notice that a former Commissioner of Internal Revenue has acknowledged that the Service “makes available” to law enforcement agencies the names and addresses of those who have paid the wagering taxes, and that it is in “full cooperation” with the efforts of the Attorney General of the United States to suppress organized gambling.  Caplin, The Gambling Business and Federal Taxes, 8 Crime & Delin.  371, 372, 377.  In these circumstances, it can scarcely be denied that the obligations to register and to pay the occupational tax created for petitioner “real and appreciable,” and not merely “imaginary and unsubstantial,” hazards of self-incrimination.  Reg. v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, 330; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 599-600 ; Rogers v. United States, 340 U. S. 367, 374 .  Petitioner was confronted by a comprehensive system of federal and state prohibitions against wagering activities; he was required, on pain of criminal prosecution, to provide information which he might reasonably suppose would be available to prosecuting authorities, and which would surely prove a significant “link in a chain” 9 of evidence tending to establish his guilt.  10 Unlike the income tax return *49 in question in United States v. Sullivan, <citedDecision>274 U. S. 259</citedDecision> , every portion of these requirements had the direct and unmistakable consequence of incriminating petitioner; the application of the constitutional privilege to the entire registration procedure was in this instance neither “extreme” nor “extravagant.” See <citedDecision>
   id.,
  
  at 263</citedDecision> .  It would appear to follow that petitioner’s assertion of the privilege as a defense to this prosecution was entirely proper, and accordingly should have sufficed to prevent his conviction.  Nonetheless, this Court has twice concluded that the privilege against self-incrimination may not appropriately be asserted by those in petitioner’s circumstances.  United States v. Kahriger, supra; Lewis v. United States, supra. We must therefore consider whether those cases have continuing force in light of our more recent decisions.  Moreover, we must also consider the relevance of certain collateral lines of authority; in particular, we must determine whether either the “required records” doctrine, Shapiro v. United States, 335 U. S. 1 , or restrictions placed upon the use by prosecuting authorities of information obtained as a consequence of the wagering taxes, cf. Murphy v. Waterfront Commission, 378 U. S. 52 , should be utilized to preclude assertion of the constitutional privilege in this situation.  To these questions we turn.  *50 III. The Court's opinion in Kahriger suggested that a defendant under indictment for willful failure to register under § 4412 cannot properly challenge the constitutionality under the Fifth Amendment of the registration requirement.  For this point, the Court relied entirely upon Mr. Justice Holmes’ opinion for the Court in United States v. <citedDecision>Sullivan, supra.</citedDecision> The taxpayer in <citedDecision>Sullivan</citedDecision> was convicted of willful failure to file an income tax return, despite his contention that the return would have obliged him to admit violations of the National Prohibition Act.  The Court affirmed the conviction, and rejected the taxpayer’s claim of the privilege.  It concluded that most of the return’s questions would not have compelled the taxpayer to make incriminating disclosures, and that it would have been “an extreme if not an extravagant application” of the privilege to permit him to draw within it the entire return.  <citedDecision>274 U. S., at 263</citedDecision> .  The Court in <citedDecision>Sullivan</citedDecision> was evidently concerned, first, that the claim before it was an unwarranted extension of the scope of the privilege, and, second, that to accept a claim of privilege not asserted at the time the return was due would “make the taxpayer rather than a tribunal the final arbiter of the merits of the claim.” Albertson v. SACB, 382 U. S. 70, 79 .  Neither reason suffices to prevent this petitioner’s assertion of the privilege.  The first is, as we have indicated, inapplicable, and we find the second unpersuasive in this situation.  Every element of these requirements would have served to incriminate petitioner; to have required him to present his claim to Treasury officers would have obliged him “to prove guilt to avoid admitting it.” United States v. Kahriger, supra, at 34 (concurring opinion).  In these circumstances, we cannot conclude that his failure *51 to assert the privilege to Treasury officials at the moment the tax payments were due irretrievably abandoned his constitutional protection.  Petitioner is under sentence for violation of statutory requirements which he consistently asserted at and after trial to be unconstitutional; no more can here be required.  The Court held in Lewis that the registration and occupational tax requirements do not infringe the constitutional privilege because they do not compel self-incrimination, but merely impose on the gambler the initial choice of whether he wishes, at the cost of his constitutional privilege, to commence wagering activities.