**Combined Opinion**
 Accordingly, the judgment before us is vacated and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.  It is so ordered.  1 The operation of the rule was described in The Sapphire, 18 Wall. 51 , 56: “It is undoubtedly the rule in admiralty that where both vessels are in fault the sums representing the damage sustained by each must be added together and the aggregate divided between the two.  This is in effect deducting the lesser from the greater and dividing the remainder.  ... If one in fault has sustained no injury, it is liable for half the damages sustained by the other, though that other was also in fault.” Similarly, in The North Star, 106 U. S. 17, 22 , the rule was thus stated: “[According to the general maritime law, in cases of collision occurring by the fault of both parties, the entire damage to both ships is added together in one common mass and equally divided between them, and thereupon arises a liability of one party to pay to the other such sum as is necessary to equalize the burden.” See also, e. g., White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., 258 U. S. 341 ; The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466 .  It has long been settled that the divided damages rule applies not only in cases of collision between two vessels, but also in cases like this one where a vessel partly at fault is damaged in collision or grounding because of the mutual contributing fault of a nonvessel party.  Atlee v. Packet Co., <citedDecision>21 Wall. 389</citedDecision> (barge struck pier because of mutual fault of barge and of pier owner); White Oak Transportation Co. v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Co., supra (steamship ran aground in canal because of joint negligence of steamship and canal company).  See also G. Gilmore & C. Black, The Law of Admiralty §7-17, pp. 522-523 (2d ed. 1975).  2 The Government’s petition for certiorari presented the single question whether the admiralty rule of equally divided damages should be replaced by the rule of damages in proportion to fault.  The respondent did not file a cross-petition for certiorari, but it now argues that the Government was solely at fault and requests an increase of the judgment in its favor to the full amount of its damages.  However, absent a cross-petition for certiorari, the respondent may not now challenge the judgment of the Court of Appeals to enlarge its rights thereunder.  Morley Constr. Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co., 300 U. S. 185, 190 ; United States v. American Railway Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435 .  Moreover, even if it could be argued that respondent’s challenge of the factual findings could be taken as an argument in support of the judgment, see Stern, When to Cross-Appeal or Cross-Petition — Certainty or Confusion?, 87 Harv. L. Rev. 763 , 774 (1974), the findings of fact with respect to comparative negligence were concurred in by both the District Court and the Court of Appeals, and the respondent could not in this case meet its heavy burden under the “two-court rule.” Graver Mfg. Co. v. Linde Co., 336 U. S. 271, 275 .