**Combined Opinion**
 The libel charges that they are owners of the steamboat Gold Hunter; that they had appointed the libellant their general agent or broker; and exhibits a bill, showing a balance of accounts due libellant for money paid, laid out, and expended for the use of re *609 spondents, in paying for supplies, repairs, and advertising of the steamboat, and numerous other charges, together with commissions on the disbursements, &c. “The court below very properly dismissed the libel, for want of jurisdiction.  There is nothing in the nature of a maritime contract in the case. The libel shows nothing but a demand for a balance of accounts between agent and principal, for which an action of assumpsit, in a common law court, is the proper remedy.  That the money advanced and paid for respondents was, in whole or in part, to pay bills due by a steamboat for repairs or supplies, will not make the transaction maritime, or give the libellant a remedy in admiralty.  Nor does the local law of California, which authorizes an attachment of vessels for supplies or repairs, extend to the balance of accounts between agent and principal, who have never dealt on the credit, pledge, or security of the vessel.  “The case is too plain for argument.” 17 How. 477 .  While disagreeing over what sorts of agency contracts fall within Minium’s ambit, lower courts have uniformly agreed that Minturn states a per se rule barring at least some classes of agency contracts from admiralty.  See n. 4, supra. 5 Minturn appears to have rested on two rationales: (1) that the agent’s claim was nothing more than a “demand for a balance of accounts” which could be remedied at common law through an action of assumpsit; and (2) that the agent had no contractual or legal right to advance monies “on the credit, pledge, or security of the vessel.” The first rationale appears to be an application of the then-accepted rule that “the *610 admiralty has no jurisdiction at all in matters of account between part owners,” The Steamboat Orleans v. Phoebus, 11 Pet. 175, 182 (1837), or in actions in assumpsit for the wrongful withholding of money, see Archawski v. Hanioti, <citedDecision>350 U. S. 532, 534</citedDecision> (1956) (“A line of authorities emerged to the effect that admiralty had no jurisdiction to grant relief in such cases”).  The second rationale appears to be premised on the then-accepted rule that a contract would not be deemed maritime absent a “hypothecation” or a pledge by the vessel’s owner of the vessel as security for debts created pursuant to the contract.  In other words, to sue in admiralty on a contract, the claimant had to have some form of a lien interest in the vessel, even if the action was one in personam.  See e. g., Gardner v. The New Jersey, 9 F. Cas. 1192 , 1195 (No. 5233) (D. Pa. 1806); see generally, Note, 17 Conn. L. Rev. 595 , 597-598 (1985).  Both of these rationales have since been discredited.  In <citedDecision>Archawski, supra,</citedDecision> the Court held that an action cognizable as assumpsit would no longer be automatically excluded from admiralty.  Rather, “admiralty has jurisdiction, even where the libel reads like indebitatus assumpsit at common law, provided that the unjust enrichment arose as a result of the breach of a maritime contract.” <citedDecision>350 U. S., at 536</citedDecision> .  Only 16 years after Minturn was decided, the Court also cast considerable doubt on the “hypothecation requirement.” In Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1 (1871), the Court explained that, in determining whether a contract falls within admiralty, “the true criterion is the nature and subject-matter of the contract, as whether it was a maritime contract, having reference to maritime service or maritime transactions.” Id., at 26 .  Several subsequent cases followed this edict of Dunham and rejected the relevance of the hypothecation requirement to establishing admiralty jurisdiction.  See North Pacific S. S. Co. v. Hall Bros. Marine Railway & Shipbuild *611 ing Co., 249 U. S. 119, 126 (1919); Detroit Trust Co. v. The Thomas Barlum, 293 U. S. 21, 47-48 (1934).  6 Thus, to the extent that Mintum’s theoretical underpinnings can be discerned, those foundations are no longer the law of this Court. Minturifs approach to determining admiralty jurisdiction, moreover, is inconsistent with the principle that the “nature and subject-matter” of the contract at issue should be the crucial consideration in assessing admiralty jurisdiction.  Insurance Co. v. Dunham, supra, at 26 .  While the Mint-urn Court viewed it as irrelevant “[t]hat the money advanced and paid for respondents was, in whole or in part, to pay bills due by a steamboat for repairs or supplies,” the trend in modern admiralty case law, by contrast, is to focus the jurisdictional inquiry upon whether the nature of the transaction was maritime.