**Combined Opinion**
 Alienation in disregard of such restrictions can convey no title to the alienee.” In ,1862 the legislature of Texas repealed this act of 1851, but the repealing act was held to be void, as an act of a State government established in hostility to the Constitution of the United States, and “ intended- to aid rebellion by facilitating the transfer of these bonds.” It further appeared that all the bonds which had been put in circulation with the indorsement of the governor had been paid in coin on presentation at the Treasury Department; “ while, on the contrary, applications for the payment of bonds without the required indorsement, and of coupons detached from such bonds, made to that department, had been denied.  As a necessary consequence, the negotiation of these bonds became difficult.  They sold much below the rates-they would have commanded had the title to them been unquestioned.  They were bought in fact, and, under the circumstances, could only have been bought, upon speculation.  The purchasers took the risk *493 of a bad title, hoping, doubtless, that through the action of the national government, or of the government of Texas, it might be converted into a good one.” “ On the whole case,” the conclusion was, that the.  State of Texas was entitled, under the bill, filed for that purpóse, to reclaim the bonds from persons who had acquired title under the circumstances stated.  The case came before the court again in another aspect, and is reported as Texas v. Hardenberg, <citedDecision>10 Wall. 68</citedDecision> , in which the grounds of the former decision were reconsidered and declared to be satisfactory.  The same questions, as to part of the same issue of bonds, came again before the court in Huntington v. Texas, 16 Wall. 402 , in which the two prior decisions were relied on, on behalf of the State of Texas, as conclusive.  The court rehearsed the propositions decided in those cases, and referring to the' question, in regard to the invalidity of the act of 1862, repealing the act of 1851, restricting the negotiability of the bonds, said: “ But it must be observed that we have not held that such a repealing act was absolutely void, and that the title of the State could in no case be divested.  On the contrary, it may be fairly inferred from what was said in Texas v. White, that if the bonds were issued and used for a lawful purpose, the title passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of the State.' Title to the bonds issued to White and Chiles was held not to be divested out of the State, because of the unlawful purpose with which they were issued, and because the holders were, in our opinion, chargeable with notice of the invalidity of their issue and of their unlawful use.” Some 'of the same issue of bonds were in litigation before this court in National Bank of Washington v. Texas, 20 Wall. 72 .  In that case the title of the appellant was acquired after the 31st day of December, 1864, when they became redeemable, and they were not indorsed by the governor.  It was alleged that.they were issued and used in aid of the rebellion, but the fact, and all knowledge of it on the part of the appellant, was denied, and the court found the allegations were not sustained by the proof.  The question “ whether the bonds were overdue.  *494 in the sense which puts a purchaser of dishonored negotiable paper on the inquiry as to defences which may be set up against it,” was expressly waived, in the opinion of the court, because, it being “ quite clear that they were transferable by delivery after due, the same as before,” it followed that, “ to invalidate the title so acquired by a purchaser, it is necessary to make out some defect in that title,” which the court decided had not been done.  In answer to the point that the title of the appellant failed for want of an indorsement by the governor, in support of which Texas v. White and Texas v. <citedDecision>Hardenberg</citedDecision> were cited, the court said: “ On an examination of the report of that case it will be seen that the court was of opinion that it was established, both in evidence and by the answers of some of the parties, that the bonds then in controversy were all of them issued to White and Chiles, and the illegal contract on which they were issued was in evidence, and the court was further of opinion that the parties had notice of these facts.” As to what was said in Texas v. White , that the indorsement of the governor was essential to the title of a purchaser, on the ground that the State could, by statute, while the bonds were in its possession, limit their negotiability by requiring as one of its conditions the indorsement of the governor, and that the repeal of that statute, in view of its supposed treasonable purpose, was void, it is remarked by the court: “ All of this, however, was unnecessary to the decision of that case, a,nd the soundness of the proposition may be doubted.” In the case of Vermilye v. Adams Express Co., 21 Wall. 138 , the controversy involved the title to treasury notes issued under the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 468 , payable to the holder three years after date, and dated July 15, 1865, bearing interest payable semi-annually, for which coupons were attached, except for the interest of the last six months; that Avas to be paid with the principal when the notes were presented.  On the back of each note was this statement: “ At maturity, convertible at the option of the holder into bonds, redeemable at the pleasure of the government at any time after five years, and payable twenty years from June 15th, *495 1868, with, interest at six per cent, per annum payable semi?  annually in coin.” The notes in question were stolen from the Express Company and subsequently bought by Yermilye & Co., bankers in New York; but, at the time of the purchase, more than three years had elapsed from the .date of their issue, and the Secretary of the Treasury had given notice that they would be paid or converted into bonds at the option of the holder on presentation to the department, and that they had ceased to bear interest.  The judgment of the court sustaining the title of the Express Company was founded on the fact, that the purchase was made after the maturity of the obligations.  Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the court, said: “They had the ordinary form of negotiable instruments, payable at a definite time, and that time had passed and they were unpaid.  This was obvious on the face of the paper.” It was further shown that the fact that the holder had an option to convert them into other bonds did not change their character in this respect; and “ that the simple fact that they were the obligations of the government ” did not take them “ out of the rule which subjects the purchaser of overdue paper to an inquiry into the circumstances under which it was made, as regards the rights of antecedent holders.” ■ And referring to the case of Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700 , where the bonds were redeemable after the 31st day of December, 1864, it was stated that the court had there held “ that after that date they were to be considered as overdue paper, in regard to their negotiability, observing that in strictness it is true they were not payable on the day when they became redeemable, but the known usage of the United States to pay all bonds as soon as the right of payment accrues, except when a distinction between redeemability and payability is made by law and shown on the face of the bonds, requires the application oí the rule respecting overdue obligations to bonds of the United States which have become redeemable and in respect to which no such distinction is made.” Mr. Justice Miller then added: “ We have not quoted the language from the opinion m that case with any view of affirming it.  It may admit of grave *496 doubt whether such bonds, redeemable but not payable at a certain day, except at the option of the government, do become overdue in the sense of being dishonored if not paid or redeemed on that day. But the notes in the case before us have no such feature.