**Combined Opinion**
 As a necessary consequence, the negotiation of these bonds became difficult.  They sold much below the rates-they would have commanded had the title to them been unquestioned.  They were bought in fact, and, under the circumstances, could only have been bought, upon speculation.  The purchasers took the risk *493 of a bad title, hoping, doubtless, that through the action of the national government, or of the government of Texas, it might be converted into a good one.” “ On the whole case,” the conclusion was, that the.  State of Texas was entitled, under the bill, filed for that purpóse, to reclaim the bonds from persons who had acquired title under the circumstances stated.  The case came before the court again in another aspect, and is reported as Texas v. Hardenberg, 10 Wall. 68 , in which the grounds of the former decision were reconsidered and declared to be satisfactory.  The same questions, as to part of the same issue of bonds, came again before the court in Huntington v. Texas, <citedDecision>16 Wall. 402</citedDecision> , in which the two prior decisions were relied on, on behalf of the State of Texas, as conclusive.  The court rehearsed the propositions decided in those cases, and referring to the' question, in regard to the invalidity of the act of 1862, repealing the act of 1851, restricting the negotiability of the bonds, said: “ But it must be observed that we have not held that such a repealing act was absolutely void, and that the title of the State could in no case be divested.  On the contrary, it may be fairly inferred from what was said in Texas v. White, that if the bonds were issued and used for a lawful purpose, the title passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of the State.' Title to the bonds issued to White and Chiles was held not to be divested out of the State, because of the unlawful purpose with which they were issued, and because the holders were, in our opinion, chargeable with notice of the invalidity of their issue and of their unlawful use.” Some 'of the same issue of bonds were in litigation before this court in National Bank of Washington v. Texas, 20 Wall. 72 .  In that case the title of the appellant was acquired after the 31st day of December, 1864, when they became redeemable, and they were not indorsed by the governor.  It was alleged that.they were issued and used in aid of the rebellion, but the fact, and all knowledge of it on the part of the appellant, was denied, and the court found the allegations were not sustained by the proof.  The question “ whether the bonds were overdue.