**Combined Opinion**
 Lambert v. Paine, 3 Cranch, 97 .  He then- says “ to be and remain hers,” which, upon any possible construction, secures to her the full, use and enjoyment of the estate, while she holds it.  She is also vested, in the most comprehensive terms, “ with full power, right and authority to dispose of the same ” (which, as no less title has yet been' mentioned, naturally means the whole estate) “ as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow.” This last clause, so far as it controls the previous words, has full effect if construed as limiting the time during which the widow may have the use and enjoyment of the estate, and the power to dispose of it, and not restricting the subject to be disposed'of.  The power thus conferred, therefore, in its own terms, as well as by'th'e general intent of the testator, gives her during widowhood the right to sell and convey an absolute title in any part of the estate; for it would be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain an adequate price for a title liable to be defeated in the hands of the purchaser by the widow’s marrying again.  That the power was intended to be unlimited in this respect appears, even more distinctly, by the terms of the next clause, *378 by which, if she should marry again, the testator declares, it to be his will that “all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain, should go” to his surviving children.  By not using the technical word “ remainder,” or making the devise over include the entire estate at all events, but carefully adding, after the words “all the estate herein bequeathed,” the alternative “ or whatever may remain ” (which would otherwise have no meaning) he clearly manifests his intention to restrict the estate given to the children to whatever has not been disposed of by the widow; and there is nothing upon the face of the will, nor are there any extrinsic facts in this record, having any tendency to show that the power of the widow is less absolute over the real estate than over the personal property.  The cases of Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68 , and Brant v. Virginia Coal Co., <citedDecision>93 U. S. 326</citedDecision> , relied on in support of the opposite conclusion, involved the construction of wills expressed in different language from that now before the court. In Smith v. Bell , the testator bequeathed “ all his personal estate,” consisting principally of slaves, to his wife, “ to and for her own use and benefit and disposal absolutely, the remainder of said estate, after her decease, to be for the use of” his son; and the decision was that the wife took a life estate only, and the son a vested remainder.  .The wife had made no conveyance of .the property; the words of the gift over were the technical ones “the remainder of my estate,”' appropriately designating the whole estate after the wife’s death; and the court distinctly intimated that, if the will were construed as giving the wife “ the power to sell or consume the whole personal estate during her life,”-a gift over of “ what remains at her death ” would be “ totally incompatible ” and “ void for uncertainty.” 6 Pet. 78 .  But in the case at bar, the gift over is in express terms of “ whatever may remain.” If the intent expressed by these words can be carried out, the children take only what has not been disposed of.  If the clause containing them is repugnant and void, the view of the Supreme Court of Nebraska that the widow took an estate in fee is'fortified.  See Howard v. Carusi, 109 U. S. 725 ; Potter v. Couch, 141 U. S. 296, 315, 316 .  *379 In <citedDecision>Brant</citedDecision> v. Virginia Coal Co., the bequest which was held to give a life estate, and no power to convey a fee, was only of the testator’s estate, real and personal, to his wife, “ to have and to hold during her life, and to do with as she sees proper, before her death.” 93 U. S. 327 .  The numerous cases cited in the briefs have been examined, _ and show that the general current of authority in other courts is in favor of our present conclusion; but, as they largely depend upon the phraseology of particular wills, it would serve no useful purpose to discuss them in detail.  It is unnecessary to express a positive opinion upon the question whether, under this will, the widow took an estate in fee; for if she took a less estate with power to convey in fee, the result of the case, and the answers to the questions certified, must be the same as if she took an estate in fee herself.  For the reasons above stated, this court is of opinion that the will of Jacob Dawson did give his widow such an estate in lands in Nebraska of which he died seized, that she could during her widowhood convey to third persons an estate in fee simple therein; and that the Circuit Court of Appeals, in determining the nature of the estate vested in her by the will in such lands, should be governed, not by the former decision of this court in Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291 , but by the decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska in Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313.  The result is, that the first question certified must be answered accordingly; that the second question must be an- • swered in the affirmative; and that the third question must be answered in the negative; and that these answers be Certified to the Gi/rouit Gourt of Appeals.