**Combined Opinion**
 It needed no statute to change it but abrogated itself.” That court then refers to the settled doctrine that an adoption of the common law in general terms does not require, without regard to local circumstances, an, unqualified application of all its rules; that the rules, as declared by the English courts at one period or another, have been controlling in this country only so far as they were suited to and in harmony with the genius, spirit and objects of American institutions; and that the rules of the common law considered proper in the eighteenth century are not necessarily so considered in the twentieth.  “Since courts have had an existence in America,” that court said (p. 708), “ they have never hesitated to take upon themselves the responsibility of saying what are the.  proper rules of the common law.” And the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, in Hanriot v. Sherwood, 82 Va. 1, 15 , after pointing to the fact that.  *385 the common law of England is the law of that commonwealth except so far as it has been altered by statute, or so far as its principles are inapplicable to the state of the country, and that the rules of the common law had undergone modification in the courts of England, , notes with obvious approval that “ the rules of evidence have been in the courts of this country undergoing such modification and changes, according to the circumstances of the country and the manner and genius of the people.” The supreme court of Connecticut, in Beardsley v. Hartford, 50 Conn. 529, 541-542 , after quoting the maxim of the common law; cessante ratione legis-, cessat ipsa lex, sáid: “ This means that no law can survive the reasons on which it is founded.  It needs no statute to change it; it abrogates itself.  If the reasons on which a law rests are overborne by opposing reasons, which in the progress of society gain a controlling force, the old law, though still good as an abstract principle, and good in its application to some circumstances, must cease to apply as a controlling principle to the new circumstances.” The same thought is expressed in People v. Randolph, 2 Park. Cr. Rep. (N.Y.) 174, 177: “ Its rules [the rules of the common law] are modified upon its own principles and not in violation of them.  Those rules being founded in reason, one of its oldest maxims is, that where the reason of the rule ceases the rule also ceases.” It was in virtue of this maxim of the common law that the supreme court of Nevada, in Reno Smelting Works v. Stevenson, <citedDecision>20 Nev. 269</citedDecision> ; <citedDecision>21 Pac. 317</citedDecision> , in a well reasoned opinion, held that the common law doctrine of riparian rights was unsuited to conditions prevailing in -the arid land states and territories of the west, and therefore' was without force in Nevada; and that, in respect of the use of water, the applicable rule was based upon the doctrine of prior appropriation for a beneficial use.  *386 In Illinois it was held at an early day that the rule of the common law which required an owner of cattle- to keep them upon his own land was not in force in that state, notwithstanding its adoption of the common law of-England, being unsuited to conditions there in view of the extensive areas of land which had been left open and unfenced and devoted to grazing purposes.  Seeley v. Peters, 5 Gil. (Ill.) 130.  Numerous additional state decisions to the same effect might be cited; but it seems unnecessary to pursue the matter at greater length.  It results from the foregoing that the decision of the court below, in holding the wife incompetent, is erroneous.  But that decision was based primarily upon Hendrix v. United States and Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, supra, and in fairness to the lower court it should be said that its decision was fully supported by those cases. In the Hendrix case the opinion does not discuss the point; it simply recites the assignment of error to the effect that the wife of Hendrix had not been allowed to testify in his behalf, and dismisses the matter by the laconic statement, “.The ruling was not error.” In the Jin Fuey Moy case it was conceded at the bar that the wife was not a competent witness for all purposes, but it was contended that her testimony was admissible in that instance because she was offered not in behalf of her husband, that is not to prove his innocence, but simply to contradict the testimony of government witnesses who had testified to certain matters as having transpired in her presence.  The court held the distinction to be without substance, as clearly it was, and thereupon disposed of the question by saying that the rule which excludes a wife from testifying for her husband is based upon her interest in the event’ and applies without regard to the kind of testimony she might give.