**Lead Opinion**
 The Taxation of Intangibles in Kentucky, Bulletin of the Bureau of Business Research, College of Commerce, University of Kentucky, vol. 1, no. 1 (1929).  254 U. S. 122, 124 .  Carmichael v. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 511 .  The 14th Amendment, § 1, provides: “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.  No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; .  .  .” <citedDecision>307 U. S. 496</citedDecision> .  The prior cases are collected in Note 2 of the dissenting opinion in Colgate v. Harvey ( 296 U. S. 404, 445 ) and Note 1 of Mr. Justice Stone’s opinion in the Hague case ( <citedDecision>307 U. S. 496, 520</citedDecision> ).  Mr. Justice Roberts’ opinion, at p. 512: “Although it has been held that the Fourteenth Amendment created no rights in citizens of the United States, but merely secured existing rights against state abridgement, it is clear that the right peaceably to assemble and to discuss these topics, and to communicate respecting them, whether orally or in writing, is a privilege inherent in citizenship of the United States which the Amendment protects.” Mr. Justice Stone’s opinion, at p. 519-21: “Hence there is no occasion ... to revive the contention, rejected- by this Court in the Slaughter-House' Cases, that the privileges and immunities of United States citizenship, protected by that clause, extend beyond those which arise or grow out of the relationship of United States citizens to the national government.  “That such is the limited application of the privileges and immunities clause seems now to be conceded by my brethren.” Wall. 36, at 71-72: “We repeat, then, in the light of this recapitulation of events, almost too recent to be called history, but which are familiar to us all; and on the most casual examination of the language of these amendments, no one can fail to be impressed with the one pervading purpose found in them all, lying at the foundation of each, and without which none of them would have been even suggested; we mean the freedom of the slave race, the security and firm establishment of that freedom, and the protection of the newly-made freeman and citizen from the oppressions of those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion over him.  ... “.  .  .  And so, if other rights are assailed by the States which properly and necessarily fall within the protection of these articles, that protection will apply though the party interested may not be of African descent.