**Combined Opinion**
 The motive and purpose of the present regulation are plainly to make effective the Congressional conception of public policy that interstate commerce should not be made the instrument of competition in the distribution of goods' produced under substandard labor conditions, which competition is injurious to the commerce and to the states from and to which the commerce flows.  The motive and purpose of a regulation of interstate commerce are matters for the legislative judgment upon the exercise of which the Constitution places no restriction and over which the courts are given no control.  McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27 ; Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506 , 513 and cases cited.  “The judicial cannot prescribe to the legislative department of the government limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged power.” Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533 .  Whatever their motive and purpose, regulations of commerce which do not infringe some constitutional prohibition are within the plenary power conferred on Congress' by the Commerce Clause.  Subject only to that limitation, presently to be considered, we conclude that the prohibition of the shipment interstate of goods produced under the forbidden substandard labor conditions is within the constitutional authority of Congress.  In the more than a century which has elapsed since the decison of Gibbons v. Ogden , these principles of constitutional interpretation have been so long and repeatedly recognized by this Court as applicable to the Commerce Clause, that there would be little occasion for repeating them now were it not for the decision of this Court twenty-two years ago in Hammer v. Dagenhart, <citedDecision>247 U. S. 251</citedDecision> .  In that case it was held by a bare majority of the Court over the powerful and now classic dissent of Mr. Justice Holmes setting forth the fundamental issues involved, *116 that Congress was without power to exclude the products of child labor from interstate commerce.  The reasoning and conclusion of the Court’s opinion there cannot be reconciled with the conclusion which we have reached, that the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause is plenary to exclude any article from interstate commerce subject only to the specific prohibitions of the Constitution.  <citedDecision>Hammer</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Dagenhart</citedDecision> has not been followed.  The distinction on which the decision was rested that Congressional power to prohibit interstate commerce is limited to articles which in themselves have some harmful or deleterious property — a distinction which was novel when made and unsupported by any provision of the Constitution — has long since been abandoned.  Brooks v. United States, supra; Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra; Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities & Exchange Comm’n, 303 U. S. 419 ; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38 .  The thesis of the opinion that the motive of the prohibition or its effect to control in some measure the use or production within the states of the article thus excluded from the commerce can operate to deprive the regulation of its constitutional authority has long since ceased to have force.  Reid v. Colorado, supra; Lottery Case, supra; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, supra; Seven Cases v. United States, supra, 514; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., supra, 156; United States v. Carolene Products Co., supra, 147.  And finally we have declared “The authority of the federal government over interstate commerce does not differ in extent or character from that retained by the states over intrastate commerce.” United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533, 569 .  The conclusion is inescapable that <citedDecision>Hammer</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Dagenhart</citedDecision> , was a departure from the principles which have prevailed in the interpretation of the Commerce Clause both *117 before and since the decision and that such vitality, as a precedent, as it then had has long since been exhausted.  It should be and now is overruled.  Validity of the wage and hour requirements.  Section 15 (a) (2) and §§ 6 and 7 require employers to conform to the wage and hour provisions with respect to all employees engaged in the production of goods for interstate commerce.  As appellee’s employees are not alleged to be “engaged in interstate commerce” the validity of the prohibition turns on the question whether the employment, under other than the prescribed labor standards, of employees engaged in the production of goods for interstate commerce is so related to the commerce and so affects it as to be within the reach of the power of Congress to regulate it.  To answer this question we must at the outset determine whether the particular acts charged in the counts which are laid under § 15 (a) (2) as they were construed below, constitute “production for commerce” within the meaning of the statute.  As the Government seeks to apply the statute in the indictment, and as the court below construed the phrase “produced for interstate commerce,” it embraces at least the case where an employer engaged, as is appellee, in the manufacture and shipment of goods in filling orders of extrastate customers, manufactures his product with the intent or expectation that according to the normal course of his business all or some part of it will be selected for shipment to those customers.