**Combined Opinion**
 At least in the absence of a clear Congressional policy to that end, we cannot go so far.  We hold that the Suits in Admiralty Act did not deprive petitioner of the right to sue respondent for dam *585 ages for his .maritime tort.  Whether a cause of action against respondent has been established is, of course, a different question, as the issues involved in Quinn v. Southgate Nelson Corp., supra, indicate.  The Circuit Court of Appeals did not reach that question.  Accordingly we reverse the judgment and remand the cause to it.  Reversed.  1 Respondent was designated as a managing agent for the Commission as owner “to manage, operate, and conduct the business of the Line ... for and on behalf of the Owner and under its supervision and direction.” Respondent agreed “to man, equip, victual, supply and operate the vessels, • subject to such restrictions and in such manner as the Owner may prescribe” and “to conduct its operations with respect to the vessels ... in full compliance with the applicable provisions of law.” Respondent agreed “subject to such regulations or methods of supervision and inspection as may be required or prescribed” by the Commission to “exercise reasonable care and diligence to maintain the vessels in a thoroughly efficient state of repair, covering hull, machinery, boilers, tackle, apparel, furniture, equipment, and spare parts.” Respondent did not share in profits but was entitled to reimbursement for expenses under a provision of the contract which stated: “The Owner agrees to pay to the Managing Agent the actual overhead expenses of the Managing Agent determined by the Owner to have been fairly and reasonably incurred and to be properly applicable to the management and operation of the Commission’s vessels under this agreement.” 2 As to the liability of public officials see generally Dunlop v. Munroe, 7 Cranch 242, 269 ; Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 842, 843 ; Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 How. 89, 123 ; Robertson v. Sichel, <citedDecision>127 U. S. 507</citedDecision> ; Spalding v. Vilas, 161 U. S. 483 ; Brissac v. Lawrence, 2 Blatchford 121; United States v. Rogde, 214 F. 283, 290 .  3 The provision in § 8 of the Suits in Admiralty Act that any final judgment “rendered in any suit herein authorized” shall be paid “by the proper accounting officers of the United States” must be taken to refer only to judgments against the United States or its wholly owned corporations since under our construction the Act does not control or affect actions in personam against private operators.  4 Cf. Clyde-Mallory Lines v. The Eglantine, ante, p. 395, in which we held that the United States by appearing in an action for libel in rem against a government vessel for damages suffered during its operation by the United States could invoke the two-year statute of limitations contained in § 5 of the Suits in Admiralty Act, even though the United States had sold the vessel to a private operator.  In that case we were dealing with § 4 of the Act which expressly provides for such an appearance in that type of case and which states that “thereafter such cause shall proceed against the United States in accordance with the provisions of this Act.” Accordingly we stated, “The conclusion is inescapable that there is no practical difference between suits against the government as owner of the vessel and against the government as the party in interest when it voluntarily appears to defend its lately sold property against tort liability.”