**Dissenting Opinion**
 There is no warrant in the constitutional basis of this Court’s authority for attributing different roles to it depending upon the nature of the challenge to the legislation.  Our power does not vary according to the particular provision of the Bill of Rights which is invoked.  The right not to have property taken without just compensation has, so far as the scope of judicial power is concerned, the same constitutional dignity as the right to be protected against unreasonable searches and seizures, and the latter has no less claim than freedom of the press or freedom of speech or religious freedom.  In no instance is this Court the primary protector of the particular liberty that is invoked.  This Court has recognized, what hardly could be denied, that all the provisions of the first ten Amendments are “specific” prohibitions, United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152, n. 4 .  But each specific Amendment, in so far as embraced within the Fourteenth Amendment, must be equally respected, and the function of this *649 Court does not differ in passing on the constitutionality of legislation challenged under different Amendments.  When Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for this Court, wrote that “it must be remembered that legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as the courts,” Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, <citedDecision>194 U. S. 267, 270</citedDecision> , he went to the very essence of our constitutional system and the democratic conception of our society.  He did not mean that for only some phases of civil government this Court was not to supplant legislatures and sit in judgment upon the right or wrong of a challenged measure.  He was stating the comprehensive judicial duty and role of this Court in our constitutional scheme whenever legislation is sought to be nullified on any ground, namely, that responsibility for legislation lies with legislatures, answerable as they are directly to the people, and this Court’s only and very narrow function is to determine whether within the broad grant of authority vested in legislatures they have exercised a judgment for which reasonable justification can be offered.  The framers of the federal Constitution might have chosen to assign an active share in the process of legislation to this Court. They had before them the well-known example of New York’s Council of Revision, which had been functioning since 1777.  After stating that “laws inconsistent with the spirit of this constitution, or with the public good, may be hastily and unadvisedly passed,” the state constitution made the judges of New York part of the legislative process by providing that “all bills which have passed the senate and assembly shall, before they become laws,” be presented to a Council of which the judges constituted a majority, “for their revisal and consideration.” Art. Ill, New York Constitution of 1777.  Judges exercised this legislative function in New York *650 for nearly fifty years.  See Art. I, § 12, New York Constitution of 1821.