**Combined Opinion**
1 Section 2 of Chapter 328 of the North Carolina Session Laws, enacted in 1947, reads as follows: “Any agreement or combination between any employer and any labor union or labor organization whereby persons not members of such union or organization shall be denied the right to work for said employer, or whereby such membership is made a condition of employment or continuation of employment by such employer, or whereby any such union or organization acquires an employment monopoly in any enterprise, is hereby declared to be against the public policy and an illegal combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce in the State of North Carolina.” Nebraska in 1946 adopted a constitutional amendment, Art. XV, § 13 of which reads as follows: “No person shall be denied employment because of membership in or affiliation with, or resignation or expulsion from a labor organ- *528 Ration or because of refusal to join or affiliate with a labor organization; nor shall any individual or corporation or association of any kind enter into any contract, written or oral, to exclude persons from employment because of membership in or nonmembership in a labor organization.” 2 Shops that refuse to employ any but union members are sometimes designated as “closed shops,” sometimes as “union shops.” Contracts which obligate an employer to employ none but union members are sometimes designated as union security agreements, closed shop contracts or union shop contracts.  There is also much dispute as to the exact meaning of the term “open shop.” See Encyclopedia of Social Sciences, Yol. 3 (1930), pp. 568-569.  There is such an important difference in emphasis between these different labels that we think it better to avoid use of any of them in this opinion.  3 The Nebraska constitutional amendment was challenged in an action for equitable relief and for a declaratory judgment.  A substantial basis of the complaint was that employers had refused to comply with the request of unions to discharge certain employees who had failed to retain union membership.  In North Carolina, criminal proceedings were instituted against the appellants charging that an agreement made unlawful by the statute had been entered into by the appellant employer and the other appellants, who are officers and agents of labor unions affiliated with the American Federation of Labor.  4 State v. Whitaker, 228 N. C. 352 , <citedDecision>45 S. E. 2d 860</citedDecision> ; Lincoln Federal Labor Union No. 19129 v. Northwestern Iron & Metal Co., 149 Neb. 507 , 31 N. W. 2d 477 .  See also American Federation of Labor v. American Sash & Door Co., 67 Ariz. 20 , 189 P. 2d 912 .  An appeal in this latter case was also argued along with the two cases considered in this opinion.  We have treated the Arizona case in a separate opinion, post, p. 538, because the challenged Arizona amendment presents a question not raised in the Nebraska or North Carolina laws.  5 This contention rests on the premise that the Fourteenth Amendment makes the prohibitions and guarantees of the First Amendment applicable to state action.  See West Virginia v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 639 .  The pertinent language of the First Amendment is “Congress shall make no law .