**Lead Opinion**
 We find that, *657 as to the Federal Government, the Fourth and Fifth Amendments and, as to the States, the freedom from unconscionable invasions of privacy and the freedom from convictions based upon coerced confessions do enjoy an “intimate relation” 8 in their perpetuation of “principles of humanity and civil liberty [secured] .  .  .  only after years of struggle,” Bram v. United States, 168 U. S. 532, 543-544 (1897).  They express “supplementing phases of the same constitutional purpose — to maintain inviolate large areas of personal privacy.” Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, 489-490 (1944).  The philosophy of each Amendment and of each freedom is complementary to, although not dependent upon, that of the other in its sphere of influence — the very least that together they assure in either sphere is that no man is to be convicted on unconstitutional evidence.  Cf. Rochin v. California, <citedDecision>342 U. S. 165, 173</citedDecision> (1952).  Y. Moreover, our holding that the exclusionary rule is an essential part of both the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments is not only the logical dictate of prior cases, but it also makes very good sense.  There is no war between the Constitution and common sense.  Presently, a federal prosecutor may make no use of evidence illegally seized, but a State’s attorney across the street may, although he supposedly is operating under the enforceable prohibitions of the same Amendment.  Thus the State, by admitting evidence unlawfully seized, serves to encourage disobedience to the Federal Constitution which it is bound to uphold.  Moreover, as was said in Elkins , “[t'Jhe very essence of a healthy federalism depends upon the avoidance of needless conflict between *658 state and federal courts.” 364 U. S., at 221 .  Such a conflict, hereafter needless, arose this very Term, in Wilson v. Schnettler, 365 U. S. 381 (1961), in which, and in spite of the promise made by Rea , we gave full recognition to our practice in this regard by refusing to restrain a federal officer from testifying in a state court as to evidence unconstitutionally seized by him in the performance of his duties.