**Dissenting Opinion**
 31 Annals of Cong. 1050.  31 Annals of Cong. 1059.  Ibid. 31 Annals of Cong. 1051.  Similarly, the Court can obtain little support from its invocation of the dictum from the opinion for the Court in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 703 .  The central issue there was whether a child born of Chinese nationals domiciled in the United States is an American citizen if its birth occurs in this country.  The dictum upon which the Court relies, which consists essentially of a reiteration of the dictum from Osborn , can therefore scarcely be considered a reasoned consideration of the issues now before the Court. Moreover, the dictum could conceivably be read to hold only that no power to expatriate an unwilling citizen was conferred either by the Naturalization Clause or by the Fourteenth Amendment; if the dictum means no more, it would of course not even reach the holding in Perez .  Finally, the dictum must be read in light of the subsequent opinion for the Court, written by Mr. Justice McKenna, in Mackenzie v. Hare, <citedDecision>239 U. S. 299</citedDecision> .  Despite counsel’s invocation of Wong Kim Ark, <citedDecision>id.,</citedDecision> at 302 and 303, the Court held in <citedDecision>Mackenzie</citedDecision> that marriage between an American citizen and an alien, unaccompanied by any intention of the citizen to renounce her citizenship, nonetheless permitted Congress to ■withdraw her nationality.  It is immaterial for these purposes that Mrs. Mackenzie’s citizenship might, under the statute there, have been restored upon termination of the marital relationship; she did not consent to the loss, even temporarily, of her citizenship, and, under the proposition apparently urged by the Court today, it can therefore scarcely matter that her expatriation was subject to some condition subsequent.  It seems that neither Mr. Justice McKenna, who became a member of the Court after the argument but before the decision of Wong Kim Ark, supra, at 732 , nor Mr. Chief Justice White, who joined the Court’s opinions in both Wong Kim Ark and <citedDecision>Mackenzie</citedDecision> , thought that Wong Kim Ark required the result reached by the Court today.  Nor, it must be supposed, did the other six members of the Court who joined <citedDecision>Mackenzie</citedDecision> , despite Wong Kim Ark .  The various revisions of the proposed amendment may be traced through 20 Annals of Cong. 530, 549, 572-573, 635, 671.  Ames, The Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the United States during the First Century of Its History, 2 Ann. Rep. Am. Hist. Assn. for the Year 1896, 188.  Ames, supra, at 187, speculates that the presence of Jerome Bonaparte in this country some few years earlier might have caused apprehension, and concludes that the amendment was merely an expression of “animosity against foreigners.” Id.,, at 188.  The clause provides that “No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” Roche, The Expatriation Cases, 1963 Sup. Ct. Rev. 325 , 335.  Ibid. 6 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents 226.  See, e. g., the comments of Senator Brown of Missouri, Cong. Globe, 38th Cong., 1st Sess., 3460.