**Combined Opinion**
Mr. Justice Douglas delivered the opinion of the Court. In 1970 the people of Illinois amended its constitution 1 adding Art. IX-A to become effective January 1, 1971, and reading: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, the taxation of personal property by valuation is prohibited as to individuals.” There apparently appeared on the ballot when Art. IX-A was approved the following: “The amendment would abolish the personal property tax by valuation levied against individuals.  It would not affect the same tax levied against corporations and other entities not considered in law to be individuals.  The amendment would achieve this result by adding a new article to the Constitution of 1870, Article IX-A, thus setting aside existing provisions of Article IX, Section 1, that require the taxation by valuation of all forms of property, real and personal or other, owned by individuals and corporations.” Respondent Lake Shore Auto Parts Co., a corporation, brought an action against Illinois officials on its behalf *358 and on behalf of all other corporations and “non-individuals” subject to the personal property tax, claiming that the tax violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment since it exempts from personal property taxes all personal property owned by individuals but retains such taxes as to personal property owned by corporations and other “non-individuals.” The Circuit Court held the Revenue Act of Illinois, as amended by Art. IX-A, unconstitutional as respects corporations by reason of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  Shapiro and other individuals also brought suit alleging they are natural persons who own personal property, one for himself and his family, one as a sole proprietor of a business, and one as a partnership.  A different trial judge entered an order in these cases dismissing the complaints except as to Shapiro and members of his class.  The trial judge held that all other provisions of Illinois law imposing personal property taxes on property owned by corporations and other “non-individuals” were unaffected by Art. IX-A, in line with the statement on the ballot, quoted above.  All respondents in both cases appealed to the Illinois Supreme Court, which held that Art. IX-A did not affect all forms of real and personal property taxes but only personal property taxes on individuals, which it construed to mean “ad valorem taxation of personal property owned by a natural person or by two or more natural persons as joint tenants or tenants in common.” <citedDecision>49 Ill. 2d 137, 148</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>273 N. E. 2d 592, 597</citedDecision> .  As so construed, the Illinois Supreme Court held that the tax violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 151</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>273 N. E. 2d, at 599</citedDecision> , one Justice dissenting.  2 *359 The cases are here on writs of certiorari which we granted.  405 U. S. 1039 .  The Equal Protection Clause does not mean that a State may not draw lines that treat one class of individuals or entities differently from the others.  The test is whether the difference in treatment is an invidious discrimination.  Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U. S. 663, 666 .  Where taxation is concerned and no specific federal right, apart from equal protection, is imperiled, 3 the States have large leeway in making classifications and drawing lines which in their judgment produce reasonable systems of taxation.