**Combined Opinion**
 The state court held the act did not violate the Federal Constitution and remanded the case for trial. It was argued that the judgment was not “final” for purposes of 28 U. S. C. § 1257 .  We noted that the point had “a surface plausibility, since it is true the judgment of the State Supreme Court did not literally end the case.” 384 U. S., at 217 .  We held it “final,” however, because if the Act were constitutional the editor wbuld in reality have no defense.  Since conviction seemed likely, we concluded that to deny review at that stage would “result in a completely unnecessary waste of time and energy in judicial systems already troubled by delays due to congested dockets.” Id., at 217-218 .  In Hudson Distributors, Inc. v. Eli Lilly & Co., 377 U. S. 386 , the question on the merits was whether the require *161 ment of a state act setting minimum retail prices was consonant with federal law. The state court held the state act constitutional under both the State and the Federal Constitutions and remanded the case for further proceedings.  In reliance on Curry and on Langdeau 4 we held that the fact that there were to be further proceedings in the state court did not render the state judgment “nonfinal or unappealable within the meaning of 28 U. S. C. § 1257 .” Id., at 389 n. 4.  The exceptions noted 5 have a long lineage dating back *162 to Mr. Chief Justice Taney’s opinion in Forgay v. Conrad, <citedDecision>6 How. 201</citedDecision> , where the Court held “final” an interlocutory decree requiring a litigant “to deliver up property which he claims,” even though a final accounting has yet to be made.  <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 205</citedDecision> .  Unless that interlocutory order was deemed “final,” Mr. Chief Justice Taney pointed out, the “right of appeal is of very little value to him and he may be ruined before he is permitted to avail himself of the right.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> It is equally important that we treat the judgment in the instant case as “final,” for we have discovered no way which the licensing authority in North Dakota has of preserving the constitutional question now ripe for decision.  The Board here denied respondent’s application without an evidentiary hearing since the application showed that under the North Dakota Act respondent could in no way qualify for a license.  The State Supreme Court held that Act unconstitutional and that thus an applicant failing to meet the requirements of the state statute is nevertheless entitled to consideration for a license.  As previously noted, the State Supreme Court, indeed, directed the Board on remand to reconsider the application “sans” the constitutional question.  There were state law questions to be considered on the remand, for the state board had also rested its denial of a permit on the failure of Snyder’s to meet certain structural and safety standards.  The Supreme Court *163 remanded for an administrative hearing on those other issues.  If we deny review at this point, respondent has no constitutional barrier to the grant of a license.