**Combined Opinion**
 See J. Griffin, The American Law of Collision 564 (1949); Staring, supra, at 341-342.  Cf. The Margaret, 30 F. 2d 923 (CA3).  It is no longer apparent, if it ever was, that this Solomonic division of damages serves to achieve even rough justice.  11 An equal division of damages is a reasonably satisfactory result only where each vessel’s fault is approximately equal and each vessel thus assumes a share of the collision damages in proportion to its share of the blame, or where proportionate degrees of fault cannot be measured and determined on a rational basis.  The rule produces palpably unfair results in every other case. For example, where one ship’s fault in causing a collision is relatively slight and her damages small, and where the second ship is grossly negligent and suffers extensive damage, the first ship must still make a substantial payment to the second.  “This result hardly commends itself to the sense of justice any more appealingly than does the common law doctrine of contributory negligence ....” Gilmore & Black 528.  And the potential unfairness of the division is magnified by the application of the rule of The Pennsyl *406 vania, <citedDecision>19 Wall. 125</citedDecision> , whereby a ship’s relatively minor statutory violation will require her to bear half the collision damage unless she can satisfy the heavy burden of showing “not merely that her fault might not have been one of the causes, or that it probably was not, but that it could not have been.” Id., at 136 (emphasis added).  See O/Y Finlayson-Forssa A/B v. Pan Atlantic S. S. Corp., 259 F. 2d 11 , 22 (CA5); The New York-Marine No. 10, 109 F. 2d 564, 566 (CA2).  See also Griffin, supra, § 202.  The Court has long implicitly recognized the patent harshness of an equal division of damages in the face of disparate blame by applying the “major-minor” fault doctrine to find a grossly negligent party solely at fault.  12 But this escape valve, in addition to being inherently unreliable, simply replaces one unfairness with another.  That a vessel is primarily negligent does not justify its shouldering all responsibility, nor excuse the slightly negligent vessel from bearing any liability at all. See Tank Barge Hygrade v. The Gatco New Jersey, 250 F. 2d 485 , 488 (CA3).  The problem remains where it began — with the divided damages rule: “[T]he doctrine that a court should not look too jealously at the navigation of one vessel, when the faults of the other are glaring, is in the nature of a *407 sop to Cerberus.