**Lead Opinion**
 There California's activity to which the congressional command was directed was not in an area that the States have regarded as integral parts of their governmental activities.  It was, on the contrary, the operation of a railroad engaged in "common carriage by rail in interstate commerce .  .  .  .” 297 U. S., at 182 .  For the same reasons, despite Mr. Justice Brennan’s claims to the contrary, the holdings in Parden v. Terminal R. Co., 377 U. S. 184 (1964), and California v. Taylor, 353 U. S. 553 (1957), are likewise unimpaired by our decision today.  It also seems appropriate to note that Case v. Bowles, <citedDecision>327 U. S. 92</citedDecision> (1946), has not been overruled as the dissent asserts.  Indeed that decision, *855 upon which our Brother heavily relies, has no direct application to the questions we consider today at all. For there the Court sustained an application of the Emergency Price Control Act to a sale of timber by the State of Washington, expressly noting that the “only question is whether the State’s power to make the sales must be in subordination to the power of Congress to fix maximum prices in order to carry on war.” <citedDecision>Id., at 102</citedDecision> .  The Court rejected the State’s claim of immunity on the ground that sustaining it would impermissibly “impair a prime purpose of the Federal Government’s establishment.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> Nothing we say in this opinion addresses the scope of Congress’ authority under its war power.  Cf. n. 17, supra. MR. Justice Brennan’s dissent leaves no doubt from its discussion, post, at 876-878, that in its view Congress may under its commerce power deal with the States as States just as they might deal with private individuals.  We venture to say that it is this conclusion, rather than the one we reach, which is in the words of the dissent a “startling restructuring of our federal system .  .  .  ,” post, at 875.  Even the appellee Secretary, defending the 1974 amendments in this Court, does not take so extreme a position.