**Lead Opinion**
 926 F. 2d, at 1502 .  1 *5 We granted certiorari to decide whether the deliberate bypass standard is the correct standard for excusing a habeas petitioner’s failure to develop a material fact in state-court proceedings.  502 U. S. 807 (1991).  We reverse.  Because the holding of Townsend v. Sain that Fay v. Noia’s deliberate bypass standard is applicable in a case like this had not been reversed, it is quite understandable that the Court of Appeals applied that standard in this case. However, in light of more recent decisions of this Court, Townsend’s holding in this respect must be overruled.  2 Fay v. *6 Noia was itself a case where the habeas petitioner had not taken advantage of state remedies by failing to appeal — a procedural default case. Since that time, however, this Court has rejected the deliberate bypass standard in state procedural default cases and has applied instead a standard of cause and prejudice.  In Francis v. Henderson, <citedDecision>425 U. S. 536</citedDecision> (1976), we acknowledged a federal court’s power to entertain an application for habeas even where the claim has been procedurally waived in state proceedings, but nonetheless examined the appropriateness of the exercise of that power and recognized, as we had in Fay , that considerations of comity and concerns for the orderly administration of criminal justice may in some circumstances require a federal court to forgo the exercise of its habeas corpus power.  <citedDecision>425 U. S., at 538-539</citedDecision> .  We held that a federal habeas petitioner is required to show cause for his procedural default, as well as actual prejudice.  <citedDecision>Id., at 542</citedDecision> .  In Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72 (1977), we rejected the application of Fay’s standard of “knowing waiver” or “deliberate bypass” to excuse a petitioner’s failure to comply with a state contemporaneous-objection rule, stating that the state rule deserved more respect than the Fay standard accorded it.  433 U. S., at 88 .  We observed that procedural rules that contribute to error-free state trial proceedings are thoroughly desirable.  We applied a cause-and-prejudice standard to a petitioner’s failure to object at trial and limited *7 Fay to its facts.  433 U. S., at 87-88 , and n. 12.  We have consistently reaffirmed that the “cause-and-prejudice” standard embodies the correct accommodation between the competing concerns implicated in a federal court’s habeas power.