**Combined Opinion**
*369 Mr. N.S. Harwood and Mr. John H. Ames for plaintiff in error. Mr. J.M. Woolworth and Mr. L.C. Burr for defendant in error. *375 MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court. This certificate distinctly presents for decision the question (argued, but not decided, when this case was before this court at a former term, reported in 144 U.S. 653 ) of the construction of the will of Jacob Dawson, the material part of which was as follows: "To my beloved wife, Editha J. Dawson, I give and bequeath all my estate, real and personal, of which I may die *376 seized, the same to be and remain hers, with full power, right and authority to dispose of the same as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow, upon the express condition, however, that if she should marry again, then it is my will that all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain, should go to my surviving children, share and share alike." By the statutes of Nebraska, "every devise of land in any will hereafter made shall be construed to convey all the estate of the devisor therein, which he could lawfully devise, unless it shall clearly appear by the will that the devisor intended to convey a less estate;" and "the term `heirs,' or other technical words of inheritance, shall not be necessary to create or convey an estate in fee simple." Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 23, ยง 124; c. 73, ยง 49. In the opinion delivered by this court in a former case between different parties, and concerning other land, the second of those sections was not referred to, and the first was imperfectly quoted (omitting the word "clearly" before "appear") and was treated as of no weight; and it was held, reversing the decision of Judge McCrary in 2 McCrary, 370 , that by the true construction of the will the widow "took under it an estate for life in the testator's lands, subject to be divested on her ceasing to be his widow, with power to convey her qualified life estate only;" and that "her estate in the land and that of her grantees determined on her marriage with Pickering." Giles v. Little, 104 U.S. 299 , 300.