**Combined Opinion**
It needs no statute to change it; it abrogates itself. If the reasons on which a law rests are overborne by opposing reasons, which in the progress of society gain a controlling force, the old law, though still good as an abstract principle, and good in its application to some circumstances, must cease to apply as a controlling principle to the new circumstances." The same thought is expressed in People v. Randolph, 2 Park. Cr. Rep. (N.Y.) 174, 177: "Its rules [the rules of the common law] are modified upon its own principles and not in violation of them. Those rules being founded in reason, one of its oldest maxims is, that where the reason of the rule ceases the rule also ceases." It was in virtue of this maxim of the common law that the supreme court of Nevada, in Reno Smelting Works v. Stevenson, 20 Nev. 269 ; 21 P. 317 , in a well reasoned opinion, held that the common law doctrine of riparian rights was unsuited to conditions prevailing in the arid land states and territories of the west, and therefore was without force in Nevada; and that, in respect of the use of water, the applicable rule was based upon the doctrine of prior appropriation for a beneficial use. *386 In Illinois it was held at an early day that the rule of the common law which required an owner of cattle to keep them upon his own land was not in force in that state, notwithstanding its adoption of the common law of England, being unsuited to conditions there in view of the extensive areas of land which had been left open and unfenced and devoted to grazing purposes. Seeley v. Peters, 5 Gil. (Ill.) 130. Numerous additional state decisions to the same effect might be cited; but it seems unnecessary to pursue the matter at greater length. It results from the foregoing that the decision of the court below, in holding the wife incompetent, is erroneous. But that decision was based primarily upon Hendrix v. United States and Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, supra , and in fairness to the lower court it should be said that its decision was fully supported by those cases.