**Combined Opinion**
Mr. Justice Matthews delivered the opinion of the court. He recited the facts, as above' stated, and continued : The conclusions of law reached by the Court of Claims, on which its judgments are founded, and which are stated and supported in its opinion by the late learned Chief Justice of that court, are comprised in these propositions: that if the claimants, J. S. Morgan & Co., and L. Voh Hoffman & Co., or any other party from whom they are shown to have bought, had purchased the bonds in good faith for value before maturity, their “title would prevail against that of the Manhattan Savings Institution, from whom they had been stolen; that, on the face of these bonds, the United States, while fixing a day of ultimate payment, after which they would certainly be overdue, had also reserved the right of redemption at an earlier time, at its pleasure after five years from date; that, as this option could be exercised only by the United States, and not by any officer or department of the government of its mere motion, it could be declared only by law, as was done in the act of Congress of July 14, 1870 ; that this right of redemption, being expressly reserved on the face of the bonds, was part of the contract, of which every holder had notice by its terms, and, as it could be exercised only by a public law, every holder sub *491 sequent to the passage of such law must be held to know that it might be, and when it had been, exercised; that, consequently, the contract is to be read, after the passage of the act of July 14, 1870, as though the time of redemption fixed and declared in pursuance of it by the call of the Secretary of the Treasury had been originally written in it as the final day of payment; and that, by way of conclusion, it must therefore be adjudged that the claimants, against whom the judgment was passed, were purchasers of overdue paper, and not entitled to the protection of the rule which otherwise would shield their title against impeachment.  And it is insisted in argument that this conclusion is anticipated.  and required by the decisions of this court in the cases of Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700 , and Vermilye v. Adams Express Co., 21 Wall. 138, 142 .  It becomes necessary, therefore, at the outset, to examine those cases with particularity.  The bonds in controversy in the first of them were United States coupon bonds, dated January 1, 1851, payable, by their terms, to the State of Texas or bearer, with interest at five per cent., payable semi-annually, and “redeemable after the 31st day of December, 1864.” Each bond contained a statement on its face that the debt was authorized by act of Congress, and was “ transferable on delivery,” and to each were attached six-month coupons, extending to December 31, 1864.  White and Chiles acquired their title on March 15, 1865, The rules established in Murray v. Lardner, <citedDecision>2 Wall. 110</citedDecision> , 118 — “ that the purchaser of coupon bonds, before due, without notice and in good faith, is unaffected by want of title in the seller, and that the burden of proof in respect-to notice and" want of good faith is on,the claimant of the bonds as against the purchaser” — were repeated and reaifirmed, but it was added: “ These rules have never been applied to matured obligations.  Purchasers of notes or bonds past due take nothing but the actual right and title of the vendors.  The bonds in question were dated January 1,1851, and were redeemable after the 3.1st of December, 1864.  In strictness, it is true they were not payable on the day when they became redeemable, but the known usage of the United States to pay all bonds as soon as *492 the right of payment accrues, except when a distinction between redeemability and payability is made by law and shown on the face of the bonds, requires the application of the rule respecting overdue obligations to bonds of thé United States which, have become redeemable, and in respect to which no such distinction has been made.” It appeared in the case that the bonds were the property of the State of Texas on January 11, 1862, having come into her possession and ownership — so the court declares — “through public acts of the general government and of the "State, which gavenotice to all the world of the transaction consummated by them; ” and the State, while thus their owner, in 1851, passed a legislative act declaring that the bonds should be disposed of “ as may be provided by law,” but that no bond should be “ available in the hands of any holder until the same shall have been indorsed, in the city of Austin, by the governor of the State.  of Texas.” It was in reference to this legislation that the court said: “ And we think it clear that if a State, by a public act of her.legislature, imposes restrictions upon the alienation of her property , that every person who takes a transfer of such property must be held affected by notice of them.  Alienation in disregard of such restrictions can convey no title to the alienee.” In ,1862 the legislature of Texas repealed this act of 1851, but the repealing act was held to be void, as an act of a State government established in hostility to the Constitution of the United States, and “ intended- to aid rebellion by facilitating the transfer of these bonds.” It further appeared that all the bonds which had been put in circulation with the indorsement of the governor had been paid in coin on presentation at the Treasury Department; “ while, on the contrary, applications for the payment of bonds without the required indorsement, and of coupons detached from such bonds, made to that department, had been denied.  As a necessary consequence, the negotiation of these bonds became difficult.