**Lead Opinion**
 The scope of every patent is limited to the invention described in the claims contained in it, read in the light of the specification.  These so mark where the progress claimed by the patent begins and where it ends that they have been aptly likened to the description in a deed, which sets the bounds to the grant which it contains.  It is to the claims of every patent, therefore, that we must turn when we are seeking to determine what the invention is, the exclusive use of which is given to the inventor by the grant provided for by the statute, — “He can claim nothing beyond them.” Keystone Bridge Co. v. Phœnix Iron Co., 95 U. S. 274 ; Railroad Co. v. Mellon, 104 U. S. 112, 118 ; Yale Lock Mfg. Co. v. Greenleaf, 117 U. S. 554, 559 ; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 424 .  2nd.  It has long been settled that the patentee receives nothing from the law which he did not have before, and that the only effect of his patént is to restrain others from manufacturing, using or selling that which he has invented.  The patent law simply protects him in the monopoly of that which he has invented and has described in the claims of his patent.  United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 239 ; Paper Bag Patent Case, <citedDecision>210 U. S. 405, 424</citedDecision> ; Bauer v. O’Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 10 .  3rd.  Since Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1 , was decided in *511 1829 this court has consistently held that the primary purpose of our patent laws is not the creation of private fortunes for the owners of patents but is “to promote the progress of science and useful arts” (Constitution, Art. I, § 8), an object and purpose authoritatively expressed by Mr. Justice Story, in that decision, saying: “While one great object [of our patent laws] was, by holding out a reasonable reward to,inventors, and giving them an exclusive right to their inventions for a limited period, to stimulate the efforts of genius; the main object was 'to promote the progress of science-and useful arts.’” Thirty years later this court, returning to the subject, in Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322 , again pointedly and significantly says: “It is undeniably true, that the limited and temporary monopoly granted to inventors was never designed for their exclusive profit or advantage; the benefit to the public or community at large was another and doubtless the primary object in granting and securing that monopoly.” This court has never modified this statement of the relative importance of the public and private interests involved in every grant of a patent, even while declaring that in the construction of patents and the patent laws, inventors shall be fairly, even liberally, treated.  Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 241 ; Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330 ; Walker on Patents, § 185.  These rules of law make it very clear that the scope of the grant which may be made to an inventor in a patent, pursuant to the statute, must be limited to the invention described in the claims'of his patent ( 104 U. S. 118 , supra) and to determine what grant may lawfully be so made we must hpid fast to the language of the act of Congress providing for it, which is found in two sections of the Revised Statutes.  Section 4886 provides that “Any person who has invented or discovered any new and useful art, ma *512 chine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new' and useful improvement thereof, ... may .  .