**Lead Opinion**
 Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659 .  The inquiry presented by this record, as we have stated it, is important and fundamental, and it requires that we shall determine the meaning of Congress when in Rev. Stats., § 4884, it provided that "Every patent shall contain ... a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns, for the term'of seventeen years, of the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention or discovery throughout the United States, and the Territories thereof.” We are concerned only,with the right to "use,” authorized to be granted by this statute, for it is under warrant of this *510 right only that the plaintiff can and does claim validity for its warning notice.  The words used in the statute are few, simple and familiar, they have not been changed substantially since they were first used in the Act of 1790, c. 7, 1 Stat. 109 ; Bauer v. O’Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 9 , and their meaning would seem not to be doubtfpl if we can avoid reading into them that which they really do not contain.  In interpreting this language of the statute it will be of -service to keep in mind three rules long established by this court, applicable to the patent law and to the construction of patents, viz: 1st.  The scope of every patent is limited to the invention described in the claims contained in it, read in the light of the specification.  These so mark where the progress claimed by the patent begins and where it ends that they have been aptly likened to the description in a deed, which sets the bounds to the grant which it contains.  It is to the claims of every patent, therefore, that we must turn when we are seeking to determine what the invention is, the exclusive use of which is given to the inventor by the grant provided for by the statute, — “He can claim nothing beyond them.” Keystone Bridge Co. v. Phœnix Iron Co., 95 U. S. 274 ; Railroad Co. v. Mellon, 104 U. S. 112, 118 ; Yale Lock Mfg. Co. v. Greenleaf, 117 U. S. 554, 559 ; McClain v. Ortmayer, <citedDecision>141 U. S. 419, 424</citedDecision> .  2nd.  It has long been settled that the patentee receives nothing from the law which he did not have before, and that the only effect of his patént is to restrain others from manufacturing, using or selling that which he has invented.  The patent law simply protects him in the monopoly of that which he has invented and has described in the claims of his patent.  United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 239 ; Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 424 ; Bauer v. O’Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 10 .  3rd.  Since Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1 , was decided in *511 1829 this court has consistently held that the primary purpose of our patent laws is not the creation of private fortunes for the owners of patents but is “to promote the progress of science and useful arts” (Constitution, Art. I, § 8), an object and purpose authoritatively expressed by Mr. Justice Story, in that decision, saying: “While one great object [of our patent laws] was, by holding out a reasonable reward to,inventors, and giving them an exclusive right to their inventions for a limited period, to stimulate the efforts of genius; the main object was 'to promote the progress of science-and useful arts.’” Thirty years later this court, returning to the subject, in Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322 , again pointedly and significantly says: “It is undeniably true, that the limited and temporary monopoly granted to inventors was never designed for their exclusive profit or advantage; the benefit to the public or community at large was another and doubtless the primary object in granting and securing that monopoly.” This court has never modified this statement of the relative importance of the public and private interests involved in every grant of a patent, even while declaring that in the construction of patents and the patent laws, inventors shall be fairly, even liberally, treated.