**Combined Opinion**
 One was that the complainant was engaged in interstate commerce.  The answer did not deny, however, that the complainant was a foreign corporation, that it had been duly granted a license to do business in the State of Arkansas, that its right to do business in the State thus licensed was a valuable right, that the complainant had brought suit in the federal district court and removed another case to that court, that such suit and removal were violations of the license granted by the State of Arkansas, or that the defendant intended to cancel the plaintiff's license.  The case was heard on bill and answer, and is to be considered on the averments of the bill which are not denied by the answer.  Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1, 7 .  The sole question presented on the record is whether a state law is unconstitutional which revokes a license to a foreign corporation to do business within the State be *532 cause, while doing only a domestic business in the State, it reports to the federal court sitting in the State.  Ijhe cases in. this court in which the conflict between the power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business within its borders, and the federal constitutional right of such foreign corporation to resort to the federal courts has been considered, can not be reconciled.  They began with Insurance Co. v. Morse, <citedDecision>20 Wall. 445</citedDecision> , which was followed by Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535 ; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186 ; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202 ; Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673, 684 ; Barrow S. S. Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100, 111 ; Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246 ; Herndon v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135 ; Harrison v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318 , and Wisconsin v. Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Co., 241 U. S. 329 .  The principle established by the more recent decisions of this court is that a State may not, in imposing conditions upon the privilege of a foreign corporation’s doing business in the State, exact.from it a waiver of the exercise pf its cpnstitutipnal right to resort to the federal courts, or thereafter withdraw the.  privilege of doing business because of its exercise of such right, whether waived in advance or not.  The principle does not depend for its application on the character of the business the corporation does; whether state or interstate, although, that has been suggested as a distinction in some cases. It rests on the ground that the Federal Constitution confers upon citizens of one State the right to resort to federal courts in another, that state action, whether legislative or executive, necessarily calculated to curtail the free exercise of the right thus secured is void because the sovereign power of a State in excluding foreign corporations, as in the exercise of all others of its sovereign powers, is subject to the *533 limitations of the supreme fundamental law. It follows that the cases of Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535 , and Security Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246 , must be considered as overruled and that the views of the minority judges in those cases have become the law of this court. The appellant in pro-' posing to comply with the statute in question and revoke the license was about to violate the constitutional right of the appellee.  In enjoining him the District Court was right, and its decree is Affirmed.