**Combined Opinion**
 And since experience is of all teachers the most dependable, and since experience also is a continuous process, it follows that a rule of evidence at one time thought necessary to the ascertainment of truth should yield to the experience of a succeeding generation whenever that experience has clearly demonstrated the fallacy or unwisdom of the old rule.  It may be said that the court should continue to enforce the old rule, however contrary to modern experience and thought, and however opposed, in principle, to the general current of legislation and of judicial opinion, it may *382 have become, leaving to Congress the responsibility of changing it.  Of course, Congress has that power; but if Congress fail to act, as it has failed in respect of the matter now under review, and the court be called upon to decide the question, is it not the duty of the court, if it possess the power, to decide it in accordance with present day standards of wisdom and justice rather than in accordance with some outworn and antiquated rule of the past?  That this court has' the power to do so is necessarily implicit in the opinions delivered in deciding the Benson and Rosen cases. And that implication, we think, rests upon substantial ground.  The rule of the common law which denies the competency of one spouse to testify in behalf of the other in a criminal prosecution has not been modified by congressional legislation; nor has Congress directed the federal courts to follow state law upon that subject, as it has in respect of some other subjects.  That this court and the other federal courts, in this situation and by right of their own powers, may decline to enforce the ancient rule- of the common law under conditions as they now exist we think is not fairly open to doubt.  In Hurtado v. California., <citedDecision>110 U.S. 516, 530</citedDecision> , this court, after suggesting that it was better not to go too far back into antiquity for the best securities of our liberties, said: “ It is more consonant to the true philosophy of our historical legal institutions to say that the spirit of personal liberty and individual right, which they embodied, was preserved and developed by a progressive growth and wise adaptation to new circumstances and situations of the forms and processes found fit to give, from time to time, new expression and greater effect to modem ideas of self-government.  “ This, flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation is the peculiar boast and excellence of the common law. *383 “.  .  .  and as it was the characteristic principle of the common law to draw its inspiration from every fountain of justice, we are not to assume that the sources of its supply have been exhausted.  On the contrary, we should expect that the new and various experiences of our own situation and system will mould and shape it into new and not less useful forms.” Compare Holden v. Hardy, 169 U.S. 366, 385-387 .  To concede this capacity for growth and change in the Common law by drawing “ its inspiration from every fountain of justice,” and at the same time to say that- the courts of this country are forever bound to perpetuate such of its rules as, by every reasonable test, are found to be neither wise nor just, because we have once adopted them as suited to our situation and institutions at a particular time, is to deny to the common law in the place of its adoption a “flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation ” which was “ the peculiar boast and excellence ” of the system in the place of its origin.