**Lead Opinion**
 In Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435 , a Pennsylvania tax, nominally laid upon the office of the captain of a federal revenue cutter, but roughly measured by the salary paid to the officer, was held invalid.  The Court seems to have rested its decision in párt on the ground that a tax on the emoluments of his office was the equivalent of a tax upon an activity of the national government, and in part on the ground that it was, an infringement of the implied superior power of Congress to fix the compensation of government employees without diminution by state taxation.  In Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113 , this Court held that the salary of a state probate judge was constitutionally immune from federal income tax on the grounds that the salary of an officer of a state is exempt from, federal taxation if the function he performs as an officer is exempt, citing Dobbins v. Commissioners, supra, and that there was an implied constitutional restriction upon the power of the national government to tax a state in the exercise of those functions which were essential to the maintenance of state governments as they were organized át the time when the Constitution was adopted.  The possibility that a non-discriminatory tax upon the income of a state officer did not involve any substantial interference *482 with the functioning of the state government was not discussed either in this or the Dobbins case. In New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401 , the question was whether the salary of the general counsel of the Panama Rail Road Company was exempt from state income tax because the railroad company was an instrumentality of the federal government.  The sole question raised by the taxing state was whether the railroad company was a government instrumentality.  The Court, having found that the railroad company was such an instrumentality, disposed of the matter of tax exemption of the salary of its employees by declaring: “The railroad company being immune from state taxation, it necessarily results that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune.” New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, 408.  In Brush v. Commissioner, <citedDecision>300 U. S. 352</citedDecision> , the applicable treasury regulation upon which the government relied exempted from federal income tax the compensation of “state officers and employees” for “services rendered in connection with the exercise of an essential governmental function of the State.” The Court held that the maintenance of the public water system of New York City was an essential governmental function, and in determining whether the salary of the engineer in charge of that project was subject to federal income tax the Court declared, citing New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, supra, 408; “The answer depends upon whether the water system of the city was created and is conducted in the exercise of the city's governmental functions.  .  If so, its operations are immune from federal taxation and, as a necessary corollary, ‘fixed salaries and compensation paid to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune.” <citedDecision>Brush</citedDecision> v. Commissioner, supra, 360.  The fact that the expenses ef the one government might be lessened if all those who deal with it were exempt from taxation by the other was thought not to be an adequate basis for tax immunity in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514 ; Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279 ; Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508 ; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134 ; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376 .  That the economic burden of a tax on salaries is passed on to the employer or that employees will accept a lower government salary because of its tax immunity, are formulas which- have not won acceptance by 'economists and cannot be judicially assumed.  As to the “passing on” of the economic burden of the tax, see Seligman, Income Tax, VII Encyclopedia of Social Sciences, 626-638; Plehn, Public Finance (5th ed.), p. 320; Buehler, Public Finance, p. 240; Lutz, Public Finance (2d ed.), p. 336, and see Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570 , 581, footnote 1.  As to preference for government employment because the salary is tax exempt, see Dickinson, Compensating Industrial Effort (1937), pp. 7-8; Douglas, The Reality of Non-Commercial Incentives in Industrial Life, c. V of The Trend of Economics (1924); Vol. I, Fetter, Economic Principles (1915), p. 203.