**Lead Opinion**
 8 Having regard to these circumstances, the question im--mediately before us is whether Congress exceeded its constitutional power in providing that United States judges *282 appointed after the Revenue Act of 1932 shall not enjoy immunity from the incidences of taxation to which everyone else within the defined classes of income is subjected.  Thereby, of course, Congress has committed itself to the position that a non-discriminatory tax laid generally on net income is not, when applied to the income of a federal judge, a diminution of his salary within the prohibition of Article III, § 1, of the Constitution.  To suggest that it makes inroads upon the independence of judges who took office after Congress had thus charged them with the common duties of citizenship, by making them bear their aliquot share of the cost .of maintaining the Government, is to trivialize the great historic experience on which the framers based the safeguards of Article III,.  § 1.  9 To subject them to a general tax is merely to recognize that judges are also citizens, and that their particular function in government does not generate an immunity from sharing'with their fellow citizens the material burden of the government whose Constitution and laws they are charged with administering.  After this case came here, Congress, by § 3 of the Public Salary Tax Act of 1939, amended § 22 (a) so as to make it applicable to “judges of courts of the United States who took office on or before June 6, 1932.” 10 That section, however, is not now before us.  But to the extent *283 that what the Court now says is inconsistent with what was said in Miles v. Graham, <citedDecision>268 U. S. 501</citedDecision> , the latter cannot survive.  Judgment reversed.  MR. Justice McReynolds did not hear the argument in this cause and took no part in its consideration or debision.  The letter was written on February 16, 1863, and will be found in 157 U. S. 701 .  “ ... I should not have troubled you with this letter, if there was any mode by which the question could be decided in a judicial proceeding.. But all of the judges of the courts of the United States have an interest in the question, and could not therefore with propriety undertake to hear and decide it.” 157 U. S. at 702.  13 Op. A. G. 161; but see the opinion of Attorney General Palmer, 31 Op. A. G. 475.  See Mr. Justice Field, concurring, in Pollock v. Farmers’ Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 588, 606-07 .