**Concurrence Opinion**
 *179 This is emphasized by his quotation from Chief Justice Taney’s dissenting opinion in the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283 , 492: “We are all citizens of the United States; and, as members of the same community, must have the right to pass and repass through every part of it without interruption, as freely as in our own States.” Hence the dictum in United States v. Wheeler, supra, p. 299 , which attempts to limit the Crandall case to a holding that the statute in question directly burdened “the performance by the United States of its governmental functions” and limited the “rights of the citizens growing out of such functions,” does not bear analysis.  So, when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted in 1868, it had been squarely and authoritatively settled that the right to move freely from State to State was a right of national citizenship.  As such it was protected by the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment against state interference.  Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 74, 79 .  In the latter case Mr. Justice Miller recognized that it was so “protected by implied guarantees” of the Constitution.  Id., p. 79.  That was also acknowledged in Twining v. New Jersey, supra. And Chief Justice Fuller in Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 274 , stated: “Undoubtedly the right of locomotion, the right to remove from one place to another according to inclination, is an attribute of personal liberty, and the right, ordinarily, of free transit from or through the territory of any State is a right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment and by other provisions of the Constitution.” In the face of this history I cannot accede to the suggestion (Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, 251 ; Colgate v. Harvey, <citedDecision>296 U. S. 404, 444</citedDecision> ) that the commerce clause is the appropriate explanation of Crandall v. Nevada, supra. Two of the Justices in that case expressly *180 put the decision on the commerce clause; the others put it on the broader ground of rights of national citizenship, Mr. Justice Miller stating that “we do not concede that the question before us is to be determined” by the commerce clause.  Id., p. 43.  On that broader ground it should continue to rest. To be sure, there are expressions in the cases that this right of free movement of persons is an incident of state citizenship protected against discriminatory state action by Art. IV, § 2 of the Constitution.  Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 381 ; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180 ; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430 ; United States v. Wheeler, supra, pp. 298-299 .  Under the dicta of those cases the statute in the instant case would not survive, since California is curtailing only the free movement of indigents who are non-residents of that State.  But the thrust of the Crandall case is deeper.  Mr. Justice Miller adverted to Corfield v. Coryell, Paul v. Virginia , and Ward v. Maryland , when he stated in the Slaughter House Cases that the right protected by the Crandall case was a right of national citizenship arising from the “implied guarantees” of the Constitution.