**Lead Opinion**
 The question is whether the conduct of petitioners constituted “misbehavior ... so near” the presence of the court “as"to obstruct the administration of justice” within *45 the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial Code. 10 That section derives from the Act of March 2, 1831 ( 4 Stat. 487 ).  The Act of 1789 ( 1 Stat. 73 , 83) provided that courts of the United States “shall have power ... to punish by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of said courts, all contempts of authority in any cause or hearing before the same.” Abuses arose, 11 culminating in impeachment proceedings against James H. Peck, á federal district judge, who had imprisoned and disbarred one Lawless for publishing a criticism of one of his opinions in a case which was on appeal.  Judge Peck was acquitted.  12 But the history of that episode makes abundantly clear that it served as the occasion for a drastic delimitation by Congress of the broad undefined power of the inferior federal courts under the Act of 1789.  The day after Judge Peck’s acquittal Congress took steps to change the Act of 1789.  The House directed its Committee on the Judiciary “to inquire into the expediency of defining by statute all offences which may be punished as contempts of the courts of the United States, and also to limit the punishment for the same.” 13 Nine *46 days later James Buchanan brought in a bill which became the Act of March 2, 1831.  He had charge of the prosecution of Judge Peck and during the trial had told the Senate: 14 “I will venture to predict, that whatever may be the decision of the Senate upon this impeachment, Judge Peck has been the last man in the United States to exercise this power, and Mr. Lawless has been its' last victim.” The Act of March 2, 1831, “declaratory of the law concerning contempts of court,” contained two sections, the first of which provided: “That the power of the several courts of the United States to issue attachments and inflict summary punishments for contempts of court, shall not be construed to extend to any cases except the misbehaviour of any person or persons in the presence of the said courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehaviour of any of the officers of the said courts in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any officer of the said courts, party, juror, witness, or any other person or persons, to any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the said courts.” Sec. 2 of that Act, from which § 135 of the Criminal Code 15 ( 35 Stat. 1118 , 18 U. S. C. §241 ) derives, provided: “That if any person or persons shall, corruptly, or by threats or fr/oe, endeavour to influence, intimidate, or impede any juror, witness, or officer, in any court of the *47 United States, in the discharge of his duty, or shall, corruptly, or by threats or force, obstruct, or impede, or endeavour to obstruct or impede, the due administration of justice therein, every person or persons, so offending, shall be liable to prosecution therefor, by indictment, and shall, on conviction thereof, be punished, by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding three months, or both, according to the nature and aggravation of the offence.” In 1918 this Court in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, <citedDecision>247 U. S. 402, 418, 419</citedDecision> , stated that “there can be no doubt” that the first section of the Act of March 2, 1831 “conferred no power not already granted and imposed no limitations not already existing”; and that it was “intended to prevent the danger , by reminiscence of what had gone before, of attempts to exercise a power not possessed which .  .  .  had been sometimes done in the exercise of legislative power.” The inaccuracy of that historic, observation has been plainly demonstrated.  Frankfurter & Landis, Power of Congress Over Procedure in Criminal Contempts in “Inferior” Federal Courts — A Study in Separation of Powers, 37 Harv. L. Rev. 1010 .  Congress was responding to grievances arising out of the exercise of judicial power as dramatized by the Peck impeachment proceedings.  Congress was intent on curtailing that power.