**Lead Opinion**
 Dial and Staatsman, joining Cooper as a party defendant, filed suit in the federal court to foreclose the mortgage and to enjoin Reynolds from further prosecuting his action in the state court. The lower court sustained Reynolds’ demurrer, and this Court affirmed.  It held that the “gravamen” of the bills was an injunction to prevent Reynolds from proceeding in the state court. “Such an injunction, except under the Bankrupt Act, no court of the United States can grant.  With this exception, it is expressly forbidden by law.” 96 U. S. at 341 .  8 *138 Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 247 U. S. 214 , was not a “relitigation” case. The Texas federal district court, in a suit brought by various carriers, granted a preliminary injunction restraining the state Attorney General from proceeding to assess fines and penalties upon them for complying with an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.  The Attorney General nevertheless instituted proceedings in a state court to enjoin the carriers from complying with the Commission’s order, and a supplemental bill was filed in the federal court to stay the proceedings.  The district' court issued the injunction, and this Court dismissed an appeal under § 266, holding that the injunction below was not based upon the unconstitutionality of the Texas state statutes, but was granted merely to protect its jurisdiction until the suit brought by the carriers was finally settled.  The case obviously does not rule ours. Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v. Cauble, <citedDecision>255 U. S. 356</citedDecision> , held that a federal district court, having rendered a decree in a class suit brought in behalf of all the members of a certain class of beneficiaries in a fraternal association, may enjoin members of the class, found to be bound by the decree, from prosecuting suits in the state courts which would relitigate questions settled by such decree.  The opinion of Mr. Justice Day contains no reference to either the Act of March 2, 1793, or to Dial v. Reynolds.  The opinion is devoted almost entirely to a discussion of whether the former decree is res judicata in the state suits.  Having determined this question in the affirmative, the Court disposed of the remaining — § 265 — question in one sentence, citing only one case in support of its conclusion, Looney v. Eastern *139 Texas R. Co., supra, which, as we have seen, was not a relitigation case. 9 <citedDecision>255 U. S. at 367</citedDecision> .  Fifth.  We find, therefore, that apart from Congressional authorization, only one “exception” has been imbedded in § 265 by judicial construction, to wit, the res cases. The fact that one exception has found its way into § 265 is no justification for making another.  Furthermore, the res exception, having its roots in the same policy from which sprang § 265, has had an uninterrupted and firmly established acceptance in the decisions.  The rule of the res cases was unequivocally on the books when Congress reenacted the original § 5 of the Act of 1793, first by the Revised Statutes of 1874 and later by the Judicial Code in 1911.  In striking contrast are the “relitigation cases.” Loose language and a sporadic, ill-considered decision cannot be held to have imbedded in our law a doctrine which so patently violates the expressed prohibition of Congress.  10 *140 We are not dealing here with a settled course of decisions, erroneous in origin but around which substantial interests have clustered.  Only a few recent and episodic utterances furnish a tenuous basis for the exception which we are now asked explicitly to sanction.  Whatever justification there may be for turning past error into law when reasonable expectations would thereby be defeated, no such justification can be urged on behalf of a procedural doctrine in the distribution of judicial power between federal and state courts.  It denies reality to suggest that litigants have shaped their conduct in reliance upon some loose talk in past decisions in the application of § 265 or, more concretely, upon erroneous implications drawn from Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., supra, and <citedDecision>Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Cauble, supra.</citedDecision> Compare Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119-20 .  It is indulging in the merest fiction to suggest that the doctrine which for the first time we are asked to pronounce with our eyes open and in the light of full consideration, was so obviously and firmly part of the texture of our law that Congress in effect enacted it through its silence.  There is no occasion here to regard the silence of Congress as more commanding than its own plainly *141 and unmistakably spoken words.  This is not a situation where Congress has failed to act after having been requested to act or where the circumstances are such that Congress would ordinarily be expected to act.  The provisions of § 265 have never been the subject of comprehensive legislative reexamination.  Even the exceptions referable to legislation have been incidental features of other statutory schemes, such as the Removal and Inter-pleader Acts.  The explicit and comprehensive policy of the Act of 1793 has been left intact.