**Dissenting Opinion**
 There exists no divergence of view in regard to the power of federal courts to enjoin proceedings in state courts where the state action may embarrass or interfere with the federal court’s prior control over a res which is in its possession.  13 That is an exception to § 265.  Equally firmly embedded is the power, long exercised as compatible with § 265, of carrying into execution by injunction against state actions the equitable decrees which have settled rights or claims between the parties to the federal litigation.  This might be said to be auxiliary to the protective jurisdiction over property in the possession *146 of a court. Inasmuch, however, as the cases hereafter cited concern rights arising from claims already adjudicated, and since, in the cases where a res was at one time involved, the property was no longer in the possession of the court issuing the injunction, the theory of preventing an unseemly clash over physical possession has no basis.  The principle for which the following authorities stand is that a court haa the right to execute its decrees to avoid relitigation and forced reliance on res judicata.  The proceedings, as will be made to appear later, which were supplemented by the orders prohibiting state suits here under review, fall well within the limits of this hitherto well recognized conception.  As early as 1893 this Court declared, in Root v. Woolworth, <citedDecision>150 U. S. 401, 411</citedDecision> , that the “jurisdiction of courts of equity to interfere and effectuate their own decrees by injunctions or writs of assistance in order to avoid the relitigation of questions once settled between the same parties, is well settled.” Root, the party enjoined by the original decree, asserted rights which would require reliti-gation of settled issues.  Accordingly he was enjoined on supplemental bill, inter alia, “from bringing any action or actions touching the title to or possession of the said premises .  .  Until dissolved, that injunction forbade proceedings in state and federal courts alike.  Although § 265 was not discussed, the case is cited as a convenient summary of the then law, and because it promptly became a precedent for enforcement of decrees even when the problem of § 265 was raised.  The authority of this case has not been doubted until now.  Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537, 544 , forbade a state suit in violation of a federal court stipulation for a decree, treated the stipulation as a decree, and enjoined an action in per-sonam in the state court for the collection of penalties under an unconstitutional statute.