**Lead Opinion**
 The findings *298 made in the divorce decrees in the instant case must be treated on the issue before us as meeting those requirements.  For it seems clear that the provision of the Nevada statute that a plaintiff in this type of case must “reside” in the State for the required period 8 requires him to have a domicil, 9 as distinguished from a mere residence, in the state.  Latterner v. Latterner, 51 Nev. 285 , 274 P. 194 ; Lamb v. Lamb, 57 Nev. 421 , 65 P. 2d 872 .  Hence, the decrees in this case, like other divorce decrees, are more than in personam judgments.  They involve the marital status of the parties.  Domicil creates a relationship to the state which is adequate for numerous exercises of state power.  See Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 279 ; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 313 ; Milliken v. Meyer, <citedDecision>311 U. S. 457, 463-464</citedDecision> ; Skiriotes v. Florida, 313 U. S. 69 .  Each state as a sovereign has a rightful and legitimate concern in the marital status of persons domiciled within its borders.  The marriage relation creates problems of large social importance.  ' Protection of offspring, property interests, and the enforcement of marital responsibilities are but a few of commanding problems in the field of domestic relations with which the state must deal.  Thus it is plain that each state, by virtue of its command over its domiciliaries and its large interest in the institution of marriage, can alter within its *299 own borders the marriage status of the spouse domiciled there, even though the other spouse is absent.  There is no constitutional barrier if the form and nature of the substituted service (see <citedDecision>Milliken</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Meyer, supra, p. 463</citedDecision> ) meet the requirements of due process.  Atherton v. Atherton, supra, p. 172 .  Accordingly, it was admitted in the Haddock case that the divorce decree, though not recognized in New York, was binding on both spouses in Connecticut where granted.  201 U. S. 569 , 572, 575, 579.  And this Court in Maynard, v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190 , upheld the validity within the Territory of Oregon of a divorce decree granted by the legislature to a husband domiciled there, even though the wife resided in Ohio where the husband had deserted her.  It therefore follows that, if the Nevada decrees are taken at their full face value (as they must be on the phase of the case with which we are presently concerned), they were wholly effective to change in that state the marital status of the petitioners and each of the other spouses by the North Carolina marriages.  Apart from the requirements of procedural due process (Atherton v. Atherton, supra, p. 172 ) not challenged here by North Carolina, no reason based on the Federal Constitution has been advanced for the contrary conclusion.