**Combined Opinion**
 It added that the aim of uniformity would not be established “if suits under the Tucker Act and in the Court of Claims be allowed against the United States and actions at law in state and federal courts be permitted against the Fleet Corporation or other agents for enforcement of the maritime causes of action covered by the Act.” p. 327.  Accordingly it concluded that “the remedies given by the Act are exclusive in all cases where a libel might be filed under it.” p. 327.  These statements, coupled with the fact that the judgment in the Lustgarten case was reversed not only as respects the Fleet Corporation but the Consolidated Navigation Co. as well, support the view adopted by the court below.  Our conclusion, however, is that that position is untenable and that the Lustgarten case so far as it would prevent a private operator from being sued under the circumstances of this case must be considered as no longei controlling.  *579 There is ample support for the holding in the Johnson case that § 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act was intended to provide the only available remedy against the United States or its wholly owned corporations for enforcement of maritime causes of action covered by the Act.  But there is not the slightest intimation or suggestion in the history of that Act that it was designed to abolish all remedies which might exist against a private company for torts committed during its operation of government vessels under agency agreements.  Sec. 1 of the Suits in Admiralty Act provides that no vessel owned by the United States or a governmental corporation or “operated by or for the United States, or such corporation” shall be “subject to arrest or seizure by judicial process in the United States or its possessions.” That section was designed to avoid the inconvenience, expense and delay resulting from the holdings in The Florence H., 248 F. 1012 , and The Lake Monroe, <citedDecision>250 U. S. 246</citedDecision> , that libel in rem would lie against vessels owned by the United States.  See S. Rep. No. 223, 66th Cong., 1st Sess. ; H. Rep. No. 497, 66th Cong., 2d Sess. The wording of that section malees clear that the right to arrest or seize the vessel was taken away whether the vessel was operated by the United States or its wholly owned corporation or for either of them by a private company.  To that extent the Act affects remedies which would otherwise exist on maritime causes of action arising out of operation of government vessels by private companies for the United States or its wholly owned corporations.  Yet there is no indication whatsoever that it went further and took away any personal remedy which a tort claimant might have against such a private operator.  While § 1 abolishes the right to arrest or seize the vessel, § 2 provides that “a libel in personam may be brought against the United States or against such corporations” in cases where “if such vessel were privately owned or operated ... a proceeding in *580 admiralty could be maintained.” Sec. 2, however, does not mention private operators.  Nor do the Committee Reports advert to private operators, except as they may be affected by § 1.  The liability of an agent for his own negligence has long been embedded in the law. Quinn v. Southgate Nelson Corp., 121 F. 2d 190 , is a recent application of that principle to a situation very close to the present one.