**Dissenting Opinion**
 On the contrary, those Indians were subject to federal control.  1 Most of their allotted lands were expressly exempt from taxation, and, as the opinion of the Court recognizes, this removed them from the operation of Oklahoma’s estate tax. 2 But apart from these express exemptions, the bulk of the properties in the three estates were restricted against alienation and encumbrance by various acts of Congress.  3 History, as well as statements of Congress itself, 4 leave no doubt that property so restricted is beyond the taxing power of the states, unless and until Congress gives its consent.  In other words restriction is tantamount to im *615 munity from state taxation.  That was the basis of decision in Choctaw, O. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292 ; Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522 ; Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609 ; Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503 ; Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549 ; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501 .  In all those cases a non-Indian lessee of restricted Indian lands was held immune from state taxation of various kinds because, and only because, the lands themselves and the leasing of them were held to be immune from taxation, and this in turn because they were the lands of Indians held in Government tutelage, who were permitted to lease the lands only with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.  This immunity for lessees was withdrawn by Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., <citedDecision>303 U. S. 376</citedDecision> , which overruled Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra. Cf. the dissenting opinions in Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393 .  In neither the Coronado case nor in the Mountain Producers case was there any contention that the land in the hands of the lessors was subject to taxation.  That was recognized and accepted as correct.  The point was that even though the land was tax immune in the hands of the lessor, the lessor’s immunity did not extend to the lessee who had no personal immunity and who acquired the land for his own purposes and made a profit from it.  In other words, the withdrawal of immunity from a non-Indian lessee of restricted Indian land rests upon the remoteness of the effect of that taxation upon such Indian property, cf. Graves v. New York ex rel. O’Keefe, 306 U. S. 466 , not upon a notion that Congress did not intend by imposing restrictions to prohibit state taxation of the interest of Indians in their restricted property, nor upon the supposition that Congress lacks power to do so. Congress plainly has power to implement its Indian policy by forbidding state taxation to burden the interest of an Indian in his property.  Cf. Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 *616 U. S. 575 ; Board of Commissioners v. Seber, 318 U. S. 705 .  It exercises that power simply by imposing the restrictions.