**Lead Opinion**
 Here is a tax based solely on ability to pay.  15 “Only the same duties are exacted as from our own citizens.  The burden must rest *610 somewhere.  Revenue is indispensable to meet the public necessities.  Is it unreasonable that this small portion of it shall rest upon these Indians?” Cherokee Tobacco, supra, p. 621 .  Recognizing that equality of privilege and equality of obligation should be inseparable associates, we have recently swept away many of the means of tax favoritism.  Graves v. New York ex rel. O’Keefe, <citedDecision>306 U. S. 466</citedDecision> , permitted states to impose income taxes upon government employees, and Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405 , permitted the federal government to impose taxes on state employees.  O’Malley v. Woodrough, 307 U. S. 277 , overruled a previous decision which held that judges should not pay taxes just as other citizens, and Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., supra, repudiated former decisions seriously limiting state and federal power to tax. See also Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514 , and James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134 .  The trend of these cases should not now be reversed.  What has been said requires the conclusion that the cash and securities are not exempted by any existing legislation from state estate taxation, and this is likewise true of the personal property in two of these estates.  The validity of the taxes on the transfer of the land presents a somewhat different problem.  Some of these lands are exempt from direct taxation by virtue of explicit congressional command.  The Act of May 10, 1928, 45 Stat. 495 , for example, provides that Indians of a class which includes the three deceased should select up to 160 acres of his allotted, inherited or devised restricted lands, which “shall remain exempt from taxation while the title remains in the Indian designated ... or in any full-blood Indian heir or devisee,” while all other restricted lands are made subject to taxation by Oklahoma.