**Dissenting Opinion**
 10 The possible consequences of a tax lien upon Indian property are pointed out in The New York Indians, supra, where it was held that the mere existence of a lien in a state taxing act invalidates it, despite a provision to the effect that no foreclosure of a lien should affect the Indian’s right of occupancy.  And, even when permitting specified forms of state taxation of restricted Indian property, Congress has significantly provided in numerous statutes that no tax lien should attach.  11 I conclude that when Congress imposed restrictions upon Indian property, it meant, and was saying in effect, that the property was exempt from state taxation while the restrictions continue or until *620 Congress waives the immunity.  Indeed, Congress has clearly stated that this was its intention by declaring in the Act of April 17, 1937, 50 Stat. 68 , which permitted a gross production tax to be imposed by Oklahoma on lead and zinc produced from restricted Quapaw lands: “In accordance with the uniform policy of the United States Government to hold the lands of the Quapaw Indians while restricted and the income therefrom free from State taxation of whatsoever nature, except as said immunity is expressly waived, and, in pursuance of said fixed policy, it is herein expressly provided that the waiver of tax immunity herein provided shall be in lieu of all other State taxes of whatsoever nature on said restricted lands or the income therefrom, .  .  .” 12 When Congress has intended that restricted property should be taxed, it has explicitly said so. 13 In the absence of such assent restricted property remains beyond the reach of a state’s taxing power.  Non-alienability and tax exemption have been said to be distinct things so far as vested rights are concerned, see Choate v. Trapp, <citedDecision>224 U. S. 665, 673</citedDecision> , but this of course does not mean that the concepts of restriction and immunity from state taxation are unrelated.  Nor does the circumstance that some of the ap *621 plicable statutes expressly provide specific tax exemptions for restricted lands indicate that restriction is not tantamount to immunity from state taxation.  14 At the time the allotments to the members of the Five Civilized Tribes were made there was no State of Oklahoma.  It had been held that Congress had power to lay taxes upon Indian property within Indian Territory, Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616 , and its creature, the Territorial government, was agitating for the taxation of Indian property.  15 Restrictions, designed to protect the Indians from themselves and the actions of third parties, including state governments, did not bar taxation by the federal government which was the guardian of their interests.  16 Accordingly, specific tax exemptions were written into the allotment acts.  17 Express provisions as to the taxable status of restricted property in the later legislation appear only where the immunity is being limited and expressly waived in part or the restrictions are being changed.