**Dissenting Opinion**
 Had we before us any act of the state putting the slightest curbs upon such free expression, I should not lag behind any member of this Court in striking down such an invasion of the right to freedom of thought and freedom of speech protected by the Constitution.  I am fortified in my view of this case by the history of the flag salute controversy in this Court. Five times has the precise question now before us been adjudicated.  Four times the Court unanimously found that the requirement of such a school exercise was not beyond the powers of the states.  Indeed in the first three cases to come before the Court the constitutional claim now sustained was deemed so clearly unmeritorious that this Court dismissed the appeals for want of a substantial federal question.  Leoles v. Landers, 302 U. S. 656 ; Hering v. State Board of Education, 303 U. S. 624 ; Gabrielli v. Knickerbocker, 306 U. S. 621 .  In the fourth case the judgment of the district court upholding the state law was summarily affirmed on the authority of the earlier cases. Johnson v. Deerfield, 306 U. S. 621 .  The fifth case, Minersville District v. Gobitis, <citedDecision>310 U. S. 586</citedDecision> , was brought here because the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ran counter to our rulings.  They were reaffirmed after full consideration, with one Justice dissenting.  What may be even more significant than this uniform recognition of state authority is the fact that every Jus *665 tice — thirteen in all — who has hitherto participated in judging this matter has at one or more times found no constitutional infirmity in what is now condemned.  Only the two Justices sitting for the first time on this matter have not heretofore found this legislation inoffensive to the “liberty” guaranteed by the Constitution.  And among the Justices who sustained this measure were outstanding judicial leaders in the zealous enforcement of constitutional safeguards of civil liberties — men like Chief Justice Hughes, Mr. Justice Brandéis, and Mr. Justice Cardozo, to mention only those no longer on the Court. One’s conception of the Constitution cannot be severed from one’s conception of a judge’s function in applying it.  The Court has no reason for existence if it merely reflects the pressures of the day. Our system is built on the faith that men set apart for this special function, freed from the influences of immediacy and from the deflections of worldly ambition, will become able to take a view of longer range than the period of responsibility entrusted to Congress and legislatures.  We are dealing with matters as to which legislators and voters have conflicting views.