**Dissenting Opinion**
 The duty of a judge who must decide which of two claims before the Court shall prevail, that of a State to enact and enforce laws within its general competence or that of an individual to refuse obedience because of the demands of his conscience, is not that of the ordinary person.  It can never be emphasized too much that one’s own opinion about the wisdom or evil of a law should be excluded altogether when one is doing one’s duty on the bench.  The only opinion of our own even looking in that direction that is material is our opinion whether legislators could in reason have enacted such a law. In the light of all the circumstances, including the history of this question in this Court, it would require more daring than I possess to deny that reasonable legislators could have taken the action which is before us for review.  Most unwillingly, therefore, I must differ from my brethren with regard to legislation like this.  I cannot bring my mind to believe that the “liberty” secured by the Due Process Clause gives this Court authority to deny to the State of West Virginia the attainment of that which we all recognize as a legitimate legislative end, namely, the promo-' tion of good citizenship, by employment of the means here chosen.  Not so long ago we were admonished that “the only check upon our own exercise of power is our own sense of self-restraint.  For the removal of unwise laws from the statute books appeal lies not to the courts but to the ballot and to the processes of democratic government.” *648 United States v. Butler, <citedDecision>297 U. S. 1, 79</citedDecision> (dissent).  We have been told that generalities do not decide concrete cases. But the intensity with which a general principle is held may determine a particular issue, and whether we put first things first may decide a specific controversy.  The admonition that judicial self-restraint alone limits arbitrary exercise of our authority is relevant every time we are asked to nullify legislation.  The Constitution does not give us greater veto power when dealing with one phase of “liberty” than with another, or when dealing with grade school regulations than with college regulations that offend conscience, as was the case in Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245 .  In neither situation is our function comparable to that of a legislature or are we free to act as though we were a super-legislature.  Judicial self-restraint is equally necessary whenever an exercise of 'political or legislative power is challenged.  There is no warrant in the constitutional basis of this Court’s authority for attributing different roles to it depending upon the nature of the challenge to the legislation.