**Lead Opinion**
 It also allowed about $1,400,000 for natural gas production and about $600,000 for exploration and development.  It is suggested, however, that the Commission in ascertaining the cost of Hope’s natural gas production plant-proceeded contrary to § 1 (b) which provides that the Act shall not apply to "the production or gathering of natural gas.” But such valuation, like the provisions for operating expenses, is essential to the rate-making function as customarily performed in this country.  Cf. Smith, The Control of Power Rates in the United States and England (1932), 159 The *615 Annals 101.  Indeed § 14 (b) of the Act gives the Commission the power to “determine the propriety and reasonableness of the inclusion in operating expenses, capital, or surplus of all delay rentals or other forms of rental or compensation for unoperated lands and leases.” See note 25, supra. The Commission has expressed doubts over its power to fix rates on “direct sales to industries” from interstate pipelines as distinguished from “sales for resale to the industrial customers of distributing companies.” Annual Report, Federal Power Commission (1940), p. 11.  Sec. 1 (b) of the Act provides: “The provisions of this Act shall apply to the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, to the sale in interstate commerce of natural gas for resale for ultimate public consumption for domestic, commercial, industrial, or any other use, and to natural-gas companies engaged in such transportation or sale, but shall not apply to any other transportation or sale of natural gas or to the local distribution of natural gas or to the facilities used for such distribution or to the production or gathering of natural gas.” And see §2 (6), defining a “natural-gas company,” and H. Rep. No. 709, supra, pp. 2,3.  The wasting-asset characteristic of the industry was recognized prior to the Act as requiring the inclusion of a depletion allowance among operating expenses.  See Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, <citedDecision>292 U. S. 398, 404-405</citedDecision> .  But no such theory *617 of rate-making for natural gas companies as is now suggested emerged from the cases arising during the earlier period of regulation.  The Commission has- been alert to the problems of conservation in its administration of the Act.  It has indeed suggested that it might be wise to restrict the use of natural gas “by functions rather than by areas.” Annual Report (1940) p. 79.  The Commission stated in that connection that natural gas was particularly adapted to certain industrial uses.  But it added that the general use of such gas “under boilers for the production of steam” is “.under most circumstances of very questionable social economy.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> The argument is that §4 (a) makes “unlawful” the charging of any rate that is not just and reasonable.  And § 14 (a) gives the Commission power to investigate any matter “which it may find necessary or proper in order to determine whether any person has violated” any provision of the Act.  Moreover, § 5 (b) gives the Commission power to investigate and determine the cost of production or transportation of natural gas in cases where it has “no authority to establish a rate governing the transportation or sale of such natural gas.” And § 17 (c) directs the Commission to “make available to the several State commissions such information and reports as may be of assistance in State regulation of natural-gas companies.” For a discussion of these points by the Commission see 44 P. XJ.  R. (N. S.) pp. 34-35.