**Dissenting Opinion**
 Such an abstract test is not precise.  The agency charged with its determination has a wide range before it could properly be said by a court that the agency had disregarded statutory standards or had confiscated the property of the utility for public use.  Cf. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 461-66 , dissent.  This is as Congress intends.  Rates are left to an experienced agency particularly competent by training to appraise the amount required.  The decision as to a reasonable return had not been a source of great difficulty, for borrowers and lenders reached such agreements daily in a multitude of situations; and although the determination of fair value had been troublesome, its essentials had been worked out in fairness to investor and consumer by the time of the en *622 actment of this Act.  Cf. Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission, <citedDecision>289 U. S. 287</citedDecision> , 304 et seq. The results were well known to Congress and had that body desired to depart from the traditional concepts of fair value and earnings, it would have stated its intention plainly.  Helvering v. Griffiths, 318 U. S. 371 .  It was already clear that when rates are in dispute, "earnings produced by rates do not afford a standard for decision.” <citedDecision>289 U. S. at 305</citedDecision> .  Historical cost, prudent investment and reproduction cost 3 were all relevant factors in determining fair value.  Indeed, disregarding the pioneer investor’s risk, if prudent investment and reproduction cost were not distorted by changes in price levels or technology, each of them would produce the same result.  The realization from the risk of an investment in a speculative field, such as natural gas utilities, should be reflected in the present fair value.  4 The amount of evidence to be admitted on any point was of course in the agency’s reasonable discretion, and it was free to give its own weight to these or other factors and to determine from all the evidence its own judgment as to the necessary rates.  *623 I agree with the Court in not imposing a rule of prudent investment alone in determining the rate base.  This leaves the Commission free, as I understand it, to use any available evidence for its finding of fair value, including both prudent investment and the cost of installing at the present time an efficient system for furnishing the needed utility service.