**Dissenting Opinion**
Mr. Justice Frankfurter, dissenting: The Court holds in effect that the owner of a patent who exacts, as the condition of a license, that unpatented materials used in connection with the invention shall be purchased only from the licensor cannot obtain relief from equity against one who supplies such unpatented materials even though the unpatented appliance was not for common use but was designedly adapted for the practice of the invention, but when so used did not involve an infringement of the patent.  The decision is thus merely an appropriate application of what has come to be known as the doctrine in the Carbice case, 283 U. S. 27 .  In this view I concur. But in the series of cases in which that doctrine has heretofore been applied (Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502 ; Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., supra; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 *677 U. S. 488 ; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, <citedDecision>314 U. S. 495</citedDecision> ), not once has this Court found it relevant to reject, either explicitly or by indirection, another doctrine of the law, that of contributory infringement, nor has it seen fit to make animadversions upon it.  This is so doubtless for the simple reason that appropriate occasions for relief against contributory infringement are unrelated to the circumstances which bring the Carbice doctrine into play.  In a word, if there is no infringement of a patent there can be no contributory infringer.  Within its true limits the idea of contributory infringement was woven into the fabric of our law and has been part of it for now more than seventy years.  See Roberts, Contributory Infringement of Patent Rights, 12 Harv. L. Rev. 35 , and e. g. Thomson-Houston Electric Co. v. Ohio Brass Co., 80 P. 712 .  The doctrine has been put perhaps most simply by Judge Shepley: “Different parties may all infringe, by respectively making or selling, each of them, one of the elements of a patented combination, provided those separate elements are made for the purpose, and with the intent, of their being combined by a party having no right to combine them.  But the mere manufacture of a separate element of a patented combination, unless such manufacture be proved to have been conducted for the purpose, and with the intent of aiding infringement, is not, in and of itself, infringement.” Saxe v. Hammond, Fed. Cas. No. 12,411, 1 Ban.