**Lead Opinion**
 Such an abrupt and radical departure from our traditions should not be implied.  See Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 132 .  Cogent evidence would be necessary to convince us that Congress took that course.  We conclude that the Schwimmer, Macintosh and Bland cases do not state the correct rule of law. We are met, however, with the argument that, even though those cases were wrongly decided, Congress has adopted the rule which they announced.  The argument runs as follows: Many efforts were made to amend the law so as to change the rule announced by those cases; but in every instance the bill died in committee.  Moreover, when the Nationality Act of 1940 was passed, Congress reenacted the oath in its pre-existing form, though at the same time it made extensive changes in the requirements and procedure for naturalization.  From this it is argued that Congress adopted and reenacted the rule of the Schwimmer, Macintosh and Bland cases. Cf. Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, <citedDecision>310 U. S. 469, 488-489</citedDecision> .  We stated in Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119 , that “It would require very persuasive circumstances enveloping Congressional silence to debar this Court from reexamining its own doctrines.” It is at best treacherous to find in congressional silence alone the adoption of a controlling rule of law. We do not think under the circumstances of this legislative history that we can properly *70 place on the shoulders of Congress the burden of the Court’s own error.  The history of the 1940 Act is at most equivocal.  It contains no affirmative recognition of the rule of the Schwimmer, Macintosh and Bland cases. The silence of Congress and its inaction are as consistent with a desire to leave the problem fluid as they are with an adoption by silence of the rule of those cases. But, for us, it is enough to say that since the date of those cases Congress never acted affirmatively on this question but once and that was in 1942.  At that time, as we have noted, Congress specifically granted naturalization privileges to non-combatants who like petitioner were prevented from bearing arms by their religious scruples.  That was affirmative recognition that one could be attached to the principles of our government and could support and defend it even though his religious convictions prevented him from bearing arms.  And, as we have said, we cannot believe that the oath was designed to exact something more from one person than from another.