**Dissenting Opinion**
 In Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491 , this Court held that an authority given by Delaware to its Chancellor to appoint a receiver for an insolvent corporation on the application of any creditor did not give additional power to the federal court to appoint a receiver in a diversity case on the application of a simple creditor although the federal courts had long exercised the right to appoint receivers on the application of a secured creditor.  This Court said: “That a remedial right to proceed in a federal court sitting in equity cannot be enlarged by a state statute is likewise clear, Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106 ; Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451 .  Nor can it be so narrowed, Mississippi Mills v. Cohn, 150 U. S. 202 ; Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101, 114 .  The federal court may therefore be obliged to deny an equitable remedy which the plaintiff might have secured in a state court. Hanssen’s contention is that the statute does not enlarge the equitable jurisdiction or remedies; and that it confers upon creditors of a Delaware corporation, if the company is insolvent, a substantive equitable right to have a receiver appointed.  If this were true, the right conferred could be enforced in the federal courts, Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 109 ; since the proceeding is in pleading and practice conformable to those commonly entertained by a court of equity.  But it is not true that this statute confers upon the creditor a substantive right.” See Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, 281 U. S. 121, 127-128 ; Kelleam v. Maryland Casualty Co., 312 U. S. 377, 382 .  *200 In Lupton’s Sons Co. v. Automobile Club, <citedDecision>225 U. S. 489</citedDecision> , this Court held that a contract which could not be sued upon in the courts of New York because a New York statute provided that no foreign corporation could “maintain any action in this state” without a certificate that it had complied with certain state requirements to do business in the state, could nevertheless be sued upon in the federal court. It was said, p. 500: “The State could not prescribe the qualifications of suitors in the courts of the United States, and could not deprive of their privileges those who were entitled under the Constitution and laws of the United States to resort to the Federal courts for the enforcement of a valid contract.  .  .  .  The State in the statute before us made no such attempt.  The only penalty it imposed, to quote again from the Makar Case, was a disability to sue ‘in the courts of New York.’ ” These cases make clear that in diversity litigation the federal courts are not simply courts of the state.  They are so far as the enforcement of the substantive laws of the state are concerned, but not when procedure or power to act is involved.