**Dissenting Opinion**
 Instead of this, we are told, authoritatively, by the Supreme Court of North Carolina that North Carolina has withdrawn the jurisdiction of its courts from such a cause of action.  This produces quite a different situation.  IV. The pith of the problem, as I see it, is laid bare by the foregoing differentiations.  It consists of the question whether the North Carolina decision establishes a controlling rule of law upon the constitutionality of the state statute as tested by the federal Constitution or adjudicates that the statute merely withdraws jurisdiction from state courts over a type of action.  This Court concludes that the state decision determined the constitutionality of the statute and that its holding was binding on all federal courts in North Carolina, as well as state courts.  This idea is comprehended in the Court's opinion by the statements that the federal courts are courts of the state in diversity cases and that a litigant cannot stop with an intermediate court decision against him and begin a new litigation on the same cause of action.  *198 The Court reaches the conclusion that res judicata should apply by an application of Erie Railroad v. Tompkins, <citedDecision>304 U. S. 64</citedDecision> , and Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99 .  The teaching of those cases is accepted by me. They lead to the conclusion that in diversity cases, legal or equitable, and this proceeding is a diversity case, the federal courts in a state apply the law of that state in matters of substantive law. In matters of procedure and jurisdiction, I take it, no one would contend that the doctrine of <citedDecision>Erie Railroad</citedDecision> is applicable.  One may regret that the line of the Great Divide between substance and procedure cannot be clearly marked so that all may agree as to its location in any one case. But that line exists.  We have said that federal courts must follow the law of the state as to burden of proof.  Cities Service Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S. 208 ; Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U. S. 109, 117 ; as to conflict of laws, Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498 ; Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U. S. 487 , and as to state statutes of limitation in equity cases, Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra. The reason for these conclusions is to gain the desirable end of a symmetry of law within each state.  The momentum of the opinions, just cited, and of the desire for uniformity should not cause us to disregard the rule that state law, statutory or judicial, directed at remedies or powers of courts, cannot affect the federal system.  Each of the cases just cited follows the declarations of state law by state courts.  In this case, this Court departs from the state court’s interpretation of the meaning of a state statute in order to bring about the federal policy of uniformity.