**Lead Opinion**
 But the rationale of those cases was rejected in Ott v. Mississippi Barge Line Co., 336 U. S. 169 , where we held that vessels moving in interstate operations along the inland waters were taxable by the same standards as those which Pullman’s Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18 , first applied to railroad cars in interstate commerce.  The formula approved was one which fairly apportioned the tax to the commerce carried on within the state.  In that way we *384 placed inland water transportation on the same constitutional footing as other interstate enterprises.  The Ott caáfe involved a tax by Louisiana on vessels of a foreign corporation operating in Louisiana waters.  Louisiana sought to tax only that portion of the value of the vessels represented by the ratio between the total number of miles in Louisiana and the total number of miles in the entire operation.  The present case is sought to be distinguished on the.ground that Ohio is the domiciliary state and therefore may tax the whole value even though the boats and barges operate outside Ohio.  New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, <citedDecision>202 U. S. 584</citedDecision> , sustained a tax by the domiciliary state on all the rolling stock.of a railroad.  But in that case it did not appear that “any specific cars or any average of cars” was so continuously in another state as to be taxable there.  P. 597.  Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292 , allowed the domiciliary state to tax the entire fleet: of airplanes operating interstate; but in that case, as in the <citedDecision>Miller</citedDecision> case, it was not shown that “a.  defined part of the domiciliary corpus” had acquired a. taxable situs elsewhere.  P. 295.  Those cases, though exceptional on their facts, illustrate the reach of the taxing power of the state of the domicile as contrasted to that of the other states.  But they have no application here since most; if not all, of the barges and boats which Ohio has taxed were almost continuously outside Ohio during the taxable year.  No one vessel may have been continuously in another state during the taxable year.  But we do know that most, if not all, of them were operating in other waters and therefore under Ott v. Mississippi Barge Line Co., supra, could be taxed by the.several states on an apportionment basis.