**Dissenting Opinion**
 There the owner of the vessels was á Kentucky corporation which operated between various coastal ports.  None of the vessels were ever near Kentucky, but Kentucky was allowed to tax them because it was the state of the owner’s domicile.  The vessels were in and out of other states’ ports, just as the instant vessels were in and out of other states’ ports; but the mere possibility that some other state might attempt to levy an apportioned tax on the vessels was not permitted to destroy-Ken-' tucky’s power to tax. The crucial fact was that the vessels were not shown to have acquired a tax situs elsewhere.  As recently as 1944 this Court would seem to have added vitality to the doctrine which should- govern this case. Minnesota had taxed an airline on the full value of its airplanes, including those used in interstate commerce.  Mr. Justice Frankfurter, announcing the judgment of the Court upholding the tax, stated: “The fact that Northwest paid personal property taxes for the year 1939 upon ‘some proportion of its full value’ of its airplane fleet in some other States does not abridge the power of taxation of Minnesota as the home' State of the fleet in the circumstances of the present case. The taxability of any part of this fleet by any other State than Minnesota, in view of the taxability of the entire fleet by that State, is not now before us.  It ... is not shown Here that a defined part of the domiciliary corpus has acquired a permanent location, i.  e., a taxing situs, elsewhere.” Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota, <citedDecision>322 U. S. 292, 295</citedDecision> .  *388 The fear of “double taxation” was much more real in that case than in the jnstant case; yet the Minnesota tax was sustained bécause there was no showing that a taxing situs had been acquired elsewhere.  The question of what some other state might do is no more before the Court in this case than it was in the Northwest case. The majority today seeks to distinguish the earlier cases by magnifying the relevance of the continuous absence of the vessels from the domiciliary state.  But the operative fact of the earlier cases was the absence or presence of another taxing situs.  Where no other taxing situs was shown to exist, the state of the domicile was permitted to tax, irrespective of the amount of time the vessels were present in that state.  Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra. As it is admittedly not shown on this record that these .  vessels have acquired a tax situs elsewhere, Ohio should be permitted to tax them as the state of the owner’s domicile.