**Concurrence Opinion**
Mr. Justice Frankfurter, concurring in the result.  These cases involve the constitutional power of Congress to provide for trial of civilian dependents accompanying members of the armed forces abroad by court-martial in capital cases. The normal method of trial of federal offenses under the Constitution is in a civilian tribunal.  Trial of offenses by way of court-martial, with all the characteristics of its procedure so different from the forms and safeguards of procedure in the conventional courts, is an exercise of exceptional jurisdiction, arising from the power granted to Congress in Art. I, § 8, cl. 14, of the Constitution of the United States “To make Rules for the"Government and Regula *42 tion of the land and naval Forces.” Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65 ; see Toth v. Quarles, <citedDecision>350 U. S. 11</citedDecision> ; Winthrop, Military Law and Precedents (2d ed. 1896), 52.  Article 2 (11) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 64 Stat. 107 , 109, 50 U. S. C. § 552 (11), and its predecessors were passed as an exercise of that power, and the agreements with England and Japan recognized- that the jurisdiction to be exercised under those agreements was based on the relation of the persons involved to the military forces.  See the agreement with Great Britain, 57 Stat. 1193 , E. A. S. No. 355, and the United States of America (Visiting Forces) Act, 1942, 5 & 6 Geo. VI, c. 31; and the 1952 Administrative Agreement with Japan, 3 U. S. Treaties and Other International Agreements 3341, T. I.  A. S. 2492.  Trial by court-martial is constitutionally permissible only for persons who can, on a fair appraisal, be regarded as falling within the authority given to Congress under Article I to regulate the “land and naval Forces,” and who therefore are not protected by specific provisions of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.  It is of course true that, at least regarding the right to a grand jury indictment, the Fifth Amendment is not unmindful of the demands of military discipline.  1 Within the scope of appropriate construction, the phrase “except in cases arising in the land and naval Forces” has been assumed also to modify the guaranties of speedy and public trial *43 by jury.