**Concurrence Opinion**
 The question arose most frequently with respect to the establishment of trial by jury in possessions in which such a system was wholly without antecedents.  The Court consistently held with respect to such “Territory” that congressional power under Art. IV, § 3, was not restricted by the requirement of Art. Ill, § 2, cl. 3, and the Sixth Amendment of providing trial by jury.  “If the right to trial by jury were a fundamental right which goes wherever the jurisdiction of the *52 United States extends, or if Congress, in framing laws for outlying territory belonging to the United States, was obliged to establish that system by affirmative legislation, it would follow that, no matter what the needs or capacities of the people, trial by jury, and in no other way, must be forthwith established, although the result may be to work injustice and provoke disturbance rather than to aid the orderly administration of justice.  If the United States, impelled by its duty or advantage, shall acquire territory peopled by savages, and of which it may dispose or not hold for ultimate admission to Statehood, if this doctrine is sound, it must establish there the trial by jury.  To state such a proposition demonstrates the impossibility of carrying it into practice.  Again, if the United States shall acquire by treaty the cession of territory having an established system of jurisprudence, where jury trials are unknown, but a method of fair and orderly trial prevails under an acceptable and long-established code, the preference of the people must be disregarded, their established customs ignored and they themselves coerced to accept, in advance of incorporation into the United States, a system of trial unknown to them and unsuited to their needs.  We do not think it was intended, in giving power to Congress to make regulations for the territories, to hamper its exercise with this condition.” Dorr v. United States, <citedDecision>195 U. S. 138, 148</citedDecision> .  6 *53 The “fundamental right” test is the one which the Court has consistently enunciated in the long series of cases— e. g., American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511 ; De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1 ; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244 ; Dorr v. United States, <citedDecision>195 U. S. 138</citedDecision> , Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258 U. S. 298—dealing with claims of constitutional restrictions on the power of Congress to “make all needful Rules and Regulations” for governing the unincorporated territories.  The process of decision appropriate to the problem led to a detailed examination of the relation of the specific “Territory” to the United States.  This examination, in its similarity to analysis in terms of “due process,” is essentially the same as that to be made in the present cases in weighing congressional power to make “Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces” against the safeguards of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.  The results in the cases that arose by reason of the acquisition of exotic “Territory” do not control the present cases, for the territorial cases rest specifically on Art. IV, § 3, which is a grant of power to Congress to deal with “Territory” and other Government property.  Of course the power sought to be exercised in Great Britain and Japan does not relate to “Territory.” 7 The Court’s *54 opinions in the territorial cases did not lay down a broad principle that the protective provisions of the Constitution do not apply outside the continental limits of the United States.  This Court considered the particular situation in each newly acquired territory to determine whether the grant to Congress of power to govern “Territory” was restricted by a specific provision of the Constitution.  The territorial cases, in the emphasis put by them on the necessity for considering the specific circumstances of each particular case, are thus relevant in that they provide an illustrative method for harmonizing constitutional provisions which appear, separately considered, to be conflicting.