**Concurrence Opinion**
 .  shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.” Since 1790, 1 Stat. 113 -114, Congress has provided for such trial in the district where the offender is found (apprehended) or first brought.  See 18 U. S. C. § 3238 .  Under Article 19 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 64 Stat. 114 , 50 U. S. C. § 579 , a special court-martial may impose any punishment not forbidden by the Code “except death, dishonorable discharge, dismissal, confinement in excess of six months, hard labor without confinement in excess of three months, forfeiture of pay exceeding two-thirds pay per month, or forfeiture of pay for a period exceeding six months.” Under Art. 20, 64 Stat. 114 , 50 U. S. C. § 580 , a summary court-martial may impose any punishment not forbidden by the Code “except death, dismissal, dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, confinement in excess of one month, hard labor without confinement in excess of forty-five days, restriction to certain specified limits in excess of two months, or forfeiture of pay in excess of two-thirds of one month’s pay.” In order to impose a punishment in excess of these limits, a general court-martial must be convened under Art. 18, 64 Stat. 114 , 50 U. S. C. § 578 .  A Report of the Joint Committee on Reduction of Nonessential Federal Expenditures on Federal Personnel and Pay indicates that the executive agencies of the Federal Government, excluding the Department of Defense, alone employed 51,027 persons outside the continental United States in February 1957, excluding employees of the Panama Canal.  S. Com. Print No. 157, 85th Cong., 1st Sess. Although these figures include “some foreign nationals,” they nevertheless indicate a substantial number of United States citizens subject to foreign law. See 103 Cong. Rec. 5313-5316.  Having based the constitutionality of Article 2(11) on these grounds, the Court concluded, “we have no need to examine the power of Congress ‘To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces’ under Article I of the Constitution.” <citedDecision>351 U. S. 470, 476</citedDecision> .  In Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197 , the Court rested its decision on an interpretation of the joint resolution of Congress annexing the Hawaiian Islands.  The Court held that the act of annexation did not of its own force require indictment by grand jury and a trial by a Sixth Amendment jury.  Implicit in this holding was the assumption that such indictment and trial were not constitutionally required in Hawaii.  This assumption was based on a recognition *53 that the act should not be construed as “imposing upon the islands every provision of a Constitution, which must have been unfamiliar to a large number of their inhabitants, and for which no previous preparation had been made .  .  .  .” Id., at 215-216 .  For a statement of the applicable law before the question arose with respect to lands outside the continental limits of the United States, see Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343 , 347: “It is equally beyond question that the provisions of the National Constitution relating to trials by jury for crimes and to criminal prosecutions apply to the Territories of the United States.” But see Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1 , 44: “Doubtless Congress, in legislating for the Territories would be subject to those fundamental limitations in favor of personal rights which are formulated in the *54 Constitution and its amendments; but these limitations would exist rather by inference and the general spirit of the Constitution from which Congress derives all its powers, than by any express and direct application of its provisions.” This feeling about the “non-Christian” nations of the world was widely shared.  In his “Jubilee of the Constitution,” delivered on the 50th anniversary of the inauguration of George Washington, John Quincy Adams said: “The Declaration of Independence recognised the European law of nations, as practised among Christian nations, to be that by which they considered themselves bound, and of which they claimed the rights.  This system is founded upon the principle, that the state of nature between men and between nations, is a state of peace.  But there was a Mahometan law of nations, which considered the state of nature as a state of war — an Asiatic law of nations, which excluded all foreigners from admission within the territories of the state .... With all these different communities, the relations of the United States were from the time when they had become an independent nation, variously modified according to the operation of those various laws.  It was the purpose of the Constitution of the United States to establish justice over them all.” Adams, Jubilee of the Constitution, 73.  See also the views of Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, quoted in <citedDecision>351 U. S., at 484-485</citedDecision> .  On August 1, 1956, the President approved Public Law 856, 84th Cong., 2d Sess., providing for the relinquishment by the President, at such time as he deemed appropriate, of the consular jurisdiction of the United States in Morocco, the only foreign country where United States consuls continued to exercise such jurisdiction.  70 Stat. 773 .  The jurisdiction was relinquished on October 6, 1956.  N. Y. Times, Oct. 8, 1956, p. 1, col. 6.