**Lead Opinion**
 “ (b) Failure to Collect and Pay Over Tax, or Attempt to Defeat or Evade Tax. — Any person required under this chapter to collect, account for, and pay over any tax imposed by this chapter, who willfully fails to collect or truthfully account for and pay over such tax, and any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this chapter or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.” (26 U. S. C. (1952 ed.) § 145 (b).) § 7201.  Attempt to Evade or Defeat Tax. “Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than HOjOOO, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.” (26 U, S. C. § 7201.) The dissenters in Rutkin stated that the Court had rejected the Wilcox interpretation of § 22 (a).  Id., at 140.  The Government contends that the adoption in Wilcox of a claim of right test as a touchstone of taxability had no support in the prior cases of this Court; that the claim of right test was a doctrine invoked by the Court in aid of the concept of annual accounting, to determine when, not whether, receipts constituted income.  See North American Oil v. Burnet, 286 U. S. 417 ; United States v. Lewis, <citedDecision>340 U. S. 590</citedDecision> ; Nealy v. Commissioner, 345 U. S. 278 .  In view of our reasoning set forth below, we need not pass on this contention.  The use to which we put the claim of right test here is only to demonstrate that, whatever its validity as a test of whether certain receipts constitute income, it calls for no distinction between Wilcox and Rutkin .  In Marienfeld v. United States, 214 F. 2d 632 , the Eighth Circuit stated, “We find it difficult to reconcile the Wilcox case with the later opinion of the Supreme Court in Rutkin .  .  .  .” Id., at 636 .