**Concurrence Opinion**
 In concurring, Mr. Justice Clark emphasized the unsatisfactory nature of the Court’s “shock-the-conscience test,” saying that this “test” “makes for such uncertainty and unpredictability that it would be impossible to foretell — other than by' guesswork — just how brazen the invasion of the intimate privacies of one’s home must be in order to shock itself into the protective arms of the Constitution.  In truth, the practical result of this ad hoc approach is simply that when five Justices are sufficiently revolted by local police action, a conviction is overturned and a guilty man may go free.” 16 *666 Only one thing emerged with complete clarity from the Irvine case — that is that seven Justices rejected the “shock-the-conscienee” constitutional standard enunciated in the Wolf and Rochin cases. But even this did not lessen the confusion in this area of the law because the continued existence of mutually inconsistent precedents together with the Court’s inability to settle upon a majority opinion in the Irvine case left the situation at least as uncertain as it had been before.  17 Finally, today, we clear up that uncertainty.  As I understand the Court’s opinion in this case, we again reject the confusing “shock-the-conseience” standard of the Wolf and Rochin cases and, instead, set aside this state conviction in reliance upon the precise, intelligible and more predictable constitutional doctrine enunciated in the Boyd case. I fully agree with Mr. Justice Bradley’s opinion that the two Amendments upon which the Boyd doctrine rests are of vital importance in our constitutional scheme of liberty and that both are entitled to a liberal rather than a niggardly interpretation.  The courts of the country are entitled to know with as much certainty as possible what scope they cover.  The Court’s opinion, in my judgment, dissipates the doubt and uncertainty in this field of constitutional law and I am persuaded, for this and other reasons stated, to depart from my prior views, to accept the Boyd doctrine as controlling in this state case and to join the Court’s judgment and opinion which are in accordance with that constitutional doctrine.  <citedDecision>232 U. S. 383</citedDecision> , decided in 1914.  338 U. S. 25, 33 .  Id., at 39-40 .  The interrelationship between the Fourth and the Fifth Amendments in this area does not, of course, justify a narrowing in the interpretation of either of these Amendments with respect to areas in which they operate separately.  See Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, 602-503 (dissenting opinion); Frank v. Maryland, 359 U. S. 360, 374-384 (dissenting opinion).  116 U. S. 616 .  Id., at 633 .