**Lead Opinion**
 .  .  requires the registration only of organizations which, after the date of the Act, are found to be under the direction, domination, or control of certain foreign powers and to operate primarily to advance certain objectives.  This finding must be made after full administrative hearing, subject to judicial review which opens the record for the reviewing court’s determination whether the administrative findings as to fact are supported by the preponderance of the evidence.” Id., at 86-87 .  26 In this case no disagreement over whether the statute in question designates a particular organization can arise, for § 504 in terms inflicts its disqualification upon members of the Communist Party.  The moment § 504 was enacted, respondent was given the choice of declining a leadership position in his union or incurring criminal liability.  *453 The Solicitor General points out that in Board of Governors v. Agnew, <citedDecision>329 U. S. 441</citedDecision> , this Court applied § 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, which provides: “No officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, no partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank except in limited classes of cases in which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may allow such service by general regulations when in the judgment of the said Board it would not unduly influence the investment policies of such member bank or the advice it gives its customers regarding investments.” 27 He suggests that for purposes of the Bill of Attainder Clause, such conflict-of-interest laws 28 are not meaningfully distinguishable from the statute before us.  We find this argument without merit.  First, we note that § 504, unlike § 32 of the Banking Act, inflicts its deprivation upon the members of a political group thought to present a threat to the national security.  As we noted above, such groups were the targets of the overwhelming majority of English and early American bills of attainder.  Second, § 32 incorporates no judgment censuring or con *454 demning any man or group of men.  In enacting it, Congress relied upon its general knowledge of human psychology, and concluded that the concurrent holding of the two designated positions would present a temptation to any man — not just certain men or members of a certain political party.  Thus insofar as § 32 incorporates a condemnation, it condemns all men.  Third, we cannot accept the suggestion that § 32 constitutes an exercise in specification rather than rule-making.  It seems to us clear that § 32 establishes an objective standard of conduct.  Congress determined that a person who both (a) held a position in a bank which could be used to influence the investment policies of the bank or its customers, and (b) was in a position to benefit financially from investment in the securities handled by a particular underwriting house, might well be tempted to “use his influence in the bank to involve it or its customers in securities which his underwriting house has in its portfolio or has committed itself to take.” <citedDecision>329 U. S., at 447</citedDecision> .  In designating bank officers, directors and employees as those persons in position (a), and officers, directors, partners and employees of underwriting houses as those persons in position (b), Congress merely expressed the characteristics it was trying to reach in an alternative, shorthand way.  29 That Congress was legislating with *455 respect to general characteristics rather than with respect to a specific group of men is well demonstratecfby the fact that § 32 provides that the prescribed disqualification should not obtain whenever the Board of Governors determined that “it would not unduly influence the investment policies of such member bank or the advice it gives its customers regarding investments.” We do not suggest that such an escape clause is essential to the constitutionality of § 32, but point to it only further to underscore the infirmity of the suggestion that § 32, like § 504, incorporates an empirical judgment of, and inflicts its deprivation upon, a particular group of men.  It is argued, however, that in § 504 Congress did no more than it did in enacting § 32: it promulgated a general rule to the effect that persons possessing characteristics which make them likely to incite political strikes should not hold union office, and simply inserted in place of a list of those characteristics an alternative, shorthand criterion — membership in the Communist Party.  Again, we cannot agree.  The designation of Communists as those persons likely to cause political strikes is not the substitution of a semantically equivalent phrase; on the contrary, it rests, as the Court in Douds explicitly recognized, 339 U. S., at 389 , upon an empirical investigation by Congress of the acts, characteristics and propensities of Communist Party members.  In a number of decisions, this Court has pointed out the fallacy of the suggestion that membership in the Communist Party, or any other political organization, can be regarded as an alternative, but equivalent, expression for a list of undesirable characteristics.