**Lead Opinion**
 We think it clear from the Lovett opinion that § 304 would have been voided even if it could have been demonstrated that no one other than Lovett, Watson and Dodd possessed the characteristics which Congress was trying to reach.  The vice of attainder is that the legislature has decided for itself that certain persons possess certain characteristics and are therefore deserving of sanction, not that it has failed to sanction others similarly situated.  We of course take no position on whether or not members of the Communist Party are in fact likely to incite political strikes.  The point we make is rather that the Constitution forbids Congress from making such determinations.  See 367 U. S., at 146 (Black, J., dissenting).  “It need hardly be said that it is upon the particular evidence in a particular record that a particular defendant must be judged, and not upon the evidence in some other record or upon what may be supposed to be the tenets of the Communist Party.” Noto v. United States, 367 U. S. 290, 299 .  It is argued that § 504 is not a bill of attainder because prior to its enactment there had been an administrative adjudication (by the Subversive Activities Control Board) of “the nature of the Party.” Compare Hawker v. New York, <citedDecision>170 U. S. 189</citedDecision> ; DeVeau v. Braisted, 363 U. S. 144, 160 .  Even leaving aside the fact that the legislative history of § 504, see note 2, supra, indicates that Congress was acting in reliance on the findings it had made in 1947 rather than on those made by the Board in 1953, we think that this argument misses the point of the Court’s opinion in the Communist Party case, where the Court stressed that the Subversive Activities Control Act did not name the Communist Party but rather set forth a broad definition, which would permit the Party to escape the prescribed deprivations in the event its character changed.  48 Stat. 194 , as amended, 49 Stat. 709 , 12 U. S. C. §78 (1964 ed.).  A similar example is furnished by provisions forbidding state officers or employees from concurrently holding certain other types of positions, such as positions with the Federal Government.  See, e. g., Cal. Const., Art. IV, § 20; cf. N. Y. Const., Art. Ill, § 7; U. S. Const., Art I, § 6, cl. 2.  The command of the Bill of Attainder Clause — that a legislature can provide that persons possessing certain characteristics must abstain from certain activities, but must leave to other tribunals the task of deciding who possesses those characteristics — does not mean that a legislature cannot use a shorthand phrase to summarize the characteristics with which it is concerned.  For example, a legislature might deterniine that persons afflicted with a certain disease which has as one of its symptoms a susceptibility to uncontrollable seizures should not be licensed to operate dangerous machinery.