**Dissenting Opinion**
 An accused, arrested on probable cause, may blurt out a confession which will be admissible despite the fact that he is alone and in custody, without any showing that he had any notion of his right to remain silent or of the consequences of his admission.  Yet, under the Court’s rule, if the police ask him a single question such as “Do you have anything to say?” or “Did you kill your wife?” his response, if there is one, has somehow been compelled, even if the accused has *534 been clearly warned of his right to remain silent.  Common sense informs- us to the contrary.  While one may say that the response was “involuntary” in the sense the question provoked or was the occasion for the response and thus the defendant was induced to speak out when he might have remained silent if not arrested and not questioned, it is patently unsound to say the response is compelled.  Today’s result would not follow even if it were agreed that to some extent custodial interrogation is inherently coercive.  See Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, 161 (Jackson, J., dissenting).  The test has been whether the totality of circumstances deprived the defendant of a “free choice to admit, to deny, or to refuse to answer,” Lisenba v. California, 314 U. S. 219, 241 , and whether physical or psychological coercion was of such a degree that “the defendant’s will was overborne at the time he confessed,” Haynes v. Washington, <citedDecision>373 U. S. 503, 513</citedDecision> ; Lynumn v. Illinois, 372 U. S. 528, 534 .  The duration and nature of incommunicado custody, the presence or absence of advice concerning the defendant’s constitutional rights, and the granting or refusal of requests to communicate with lawyers, relatives or friends have all been rightly regarded as important data bearing on the basic inquiry.  See, e. g., Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143 ; Haynes v. Washington, <citedDecision>373 U. S. 503</citedDecision> .  3 *535 But it has never been suggested, until today, that such questioning was so coercive and accused persons so lacking in hardihood that the very first response to the very first question following the commencement of custody must be conclusively presumed to be the product of an overborne will. If the rule announced today were truly based on a conclusion that all confessions resulting from custodial interrogation are coerced, then it would simply have no rational foundation.  Compare Tot v. United States, 319 U. S. 463, 466 ; United States v. Romano, 382 U. S. 136 .  A fortiori that would be true of the extension of the rule to exculpatory statements, which the Court effects after a brief discussion of why, in the Court’s view, they must be deemed incriminatory but without any discussion of why they must be deemed coerced.  See Wilson v. United States, 162 U. S. 613, 624 .  Even if one were to postulate that the Court’s concern is not that all confessions induced by police interrogation are coerced but rather that some such confessions are coerced and present judicial procedures are believed to be inadequate to identify the confessions that are coerced and those that are not, it would still not be essential to impose the rule that the Court has now fashioned.  Transcripts or observers could be required, specific time limits, tailored to fit the cause, could be imposed, or other devices could be utilized to reduce the chances that otherwise indiscernible coercion will produce an inadmissible confession.