**Lead Opinion**
 Prosecutors themselves claim that the admonishment of the right to remain silent without more “will benefit only the recidivist and the professional.” Brief for the National District Attorneys Association as amicus curiae, p. 14.  Even preliminary advice given to the accused by his own attorney can be swiftly overcome by the secret interrogation process.  Cf. Escobedo v. Illinois, 378 U. S. 478, 485, n. 5 .  Thus, the need for counsel to protect the Fifth Amendment privilege comprehends not merely a right to consult with counsel prior to questioning, but also to have counsel present during any questioning if the defendant so desires.  The presence of counsel at the interrogation may serve several significant subsidiary functions as well.  If the accused decides to talk to his interrogators, the assistance of counsel can mitigate the dangers of untrustworthiness.  With a lawyer present the likelihood that the police will practice coercion is reduced, and if coercion is nevertheless exercised the lawyer can testify to it in court. The presence of a lawyer can also help to guarantee that the accused gives a fully accurate statement to the police and that the statement is rightly reported by the prosecution at trial. See Crooker v. California, <citedDecision>357 U. S. 433, 443-448</citedDecision> (1958) (Douglas, J., dissenting).  An individual need not make a pre-interrogation request for a lawyer.  While such request affirmatively secures his right to have one, his failure to ask for a lawyer does not constitute a waiver.  No effective waiver of the right to counsel during interrogation can be recognized unless specifically made after the warnings we here delineate have been given.  The accused who does not know his rights and therefore does not make a request *471 may be the person who most needs counsel.  As the California Supreme Court has aptly put it: “Finally, we must recognize that the imposition of the requirement for the request would discriminate against the defendant who does not know his rights.  The defendant who does not ask for counsel is the very defendant who most needs counsel.