**Lead Opinion**
 We issued our writ of certiorari on October 16, 1967 ( 389 U. S. 896 ).  *237 The issue presented, then, is whether the expiration of petitioner’s sentence, before his application was finally adjudicated and while it was awaiting appellate review, terminates federal jurisdiction with respect to the application.  Respondent relies upon Parker v. Ellis, 362 U. S. 574 (1960), and unless this case is overruled, it stands as an insuperable barrier to our further consideration of petitioner’s cause or to the grant of relief upon his petition for a writ of habeas corpus.  Parker v. Ellis held that when a prisoner was released from state prison after having served his full sentence, this Court could not proceed to adjudicate the merits of the claim for relief on his petition for habeas corpus which he had filed with the Federal District Court. This Court held that upon petitioner’s unconditional release the case became "moot.” Parker was announced in a per curiam decision.  3 It is clear that petitioner’s cause is not moot. In consequence of his conviction, he cannot engage in certain businesses; 4 he cannot serve as an official of a labor union for a specified period of time; 5 he cannot vote in any election held in New York State; 6 he cannot serve as a juror.  7 Because of these “disabilities or burdens [which] may flow from” petitioner’s conviction, he has “a substantial stake in the judgment of conviction which survives the satisfaction of the sentence imposed on him.” Fiswick v. United States, 329 U. S. 211, 222 (1946).  On account of these “collateral consequences,” 8 the case is *238 not moot. Ginsberg v. New York, <citedDecision>390 U. S. 629, 633-634, n. 2</citedDecision> (1968); Fiswick v. United States, supra, at 222, n. 10; United States v. Morgan, 346 U. S. 502, 512-513 (1954).  The substantial issue, however, which is posed by Parker v. Ellis , is not mootness in the technical or constitutional sense, but whether the statute defining the habeas corpus jurisdiction of the federal judiciary in respect of persons in state custody is available here.  In Parker v. Ellis , as in the present case, petitioner’s application was filed in the Federal District Court when he was in state custody, and in both the petitioner was unconditionally released from state custody before his case could be heard in this Court. For the reasons which we here summarize and which are stated at length in the dissenting opinions in Parker v. Ellis , we conclude that under the statutory scheme, once the federal jurisdiction has attached in the District Court, it is not defeated by the release of the petitioner prior to completion of proceedings on such application.  The federal habeas corpus statute requires that the applicant must be “in custody” when the application for habeas corpus is filed.  This is required not only by the repeated references in the statute, 9 but also by the history of the great writ.  10 Its province, shaped to guarantee the most fundamental of all rights, 11 is to provide an effective and speedy instrument by which judicial inquiry may be had into the legality of the detention of a person.  See Peyton v. Rowe, ante, p. 54.