**Lead Opinion**
 Since the future importance of the conviction may well turn on issues of state law about which we are not well informed, we propose, on direct appeal from the Maryland courts, to accept their judgment on this question.  Since *793 they decided this federal constitutional question, we see no reason why we should not do so as well.  Moreover, the status of petitioner’s burglary conviction and the eventual length of his sentence are both still in some doubt.  10 Should any attack on the burglary conviction be successful, or should the length of the burglary sentence be reduced to less than five years, petitioner would then clearly have a right to have his larceny conviction reviewed.  As we said in Sibron v. New York, supra, at 56-57, it is certainly preferable to have that review now on direct appeal, rather than later.  11 For these reasons, and because there is no jurisdictional bar, we find it appropriate to reach the questions specified in our original writ of certiorari.  III. In 1937, this Court decided the landmark case of Palko v. Connecticut, <citedDecision>302 U. S. 319</citedDecision> .  Palko, although indicted for first-degree murder, had been convicted of murder in the second degree after a jury trial in a Connecticut state court. The State appealed and won a new trial. Palko argued that the Fourteenth Amendment incorporated, as against the States, the Fifth Amendment requirement that no person “be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.” The Court disagreed.  Federal double jeopardy standards were not applicable against the States.  Only when a kind of jeopardy subjected a defendant to “a hardship so acute and shocking that our polity will not endure it,” <citedDecision>id., at 328</citedDecision> , did the Fourteenth Amendment apply.  The order *794 for a new trial was affirmed.  In subsequent appeals from state courts, the Court continued to apply this lesser <citedDecision>Palko</citedDecision> standard.  See, e. g., Brock v. North Carolina, 344 U. S. 424 (1953).  Recently, however, this Court has “increasingly looked to the specific guarantees of the [Bill of Rights] to determine whether a state criminal trial was conducted with due process of law.” Washington v. Texas, 388 U. S. 14, 18 (1967).  In an increasing number of cases, the Court “has rejected the notion that the Fourteenth Amendment applies to the States only a ‘watered-down, subjective version of the individual guarantees of the Bill of Rights ....’” Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1, 10-11 (1964) , 12 Only last Term we found that the right to trial by jury in criminal cases was “fundamental to the American scheme of justice,” Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 149 (1968), and held that the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial was applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment.  13 For the same reasons, we today find that the double jeopardy prohibition of the Fifth Amendment represents a fundamental ideal in our constitutional heritage, and that it should apply to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment.  Insofar as it is inconsistent with this holding, <citedDecision>Palko</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Connecticut</citedDecision> is overruled.  <citedDecision>Palko</citedDecision> represented an approach to basic constitutional rights which this Court’s recent decisions have rejected.  It was cut of the same cloth as Betts v. Brady, 316 IT.  S. 455 (1942), the case which held that a criminal defendant’s right to counsel was to be determined by deciding in each case whether the denial of that right was “shocking to the universal sense of justice.” <citedDecision>Id., at 462</citedDecision> .  It *795 relied upon Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78 (1908), which held that the right against compulsory self-incrimination was not an element of Fourteenth Amendment due process.  Betts was overruled by Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963); Twining , by Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1 (1964).  Our recent cases have thoroughly rejected the <citedDecision>Palko</citedDecision> notion that basic constitutional rights can be denied by the States as long as the totality of the circumstances does not disclose a denial of “fundamental fairness.” Once it is decided that a particular Bill of Rights guarantee is “fundamental to the American scheme of justice,” Duncan v. Louisiana, supra, at 149 , the same constitutional standards apply against both the State and Federal Governments.  Palko’s roots had thus been cut away years ago.  We today only recognize the inevitable.  The fundamental nature of the guarantee against double jeopardy can hardly be doubted.  Its origins can be traced to Greek and Roman times, and it became established in the common law of England long before this Nation’s independence.  14 See Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U. S. 121, 151-155 (1959) (Black, J., dissenting).  As with many other elements of the common law, it was carried into the jurisprudence of this Country through the medium of Blackstone, who codified the doctrine in his Commentaries.  “[T]he plea of autrefoits acquit, or a former acquittal,” he wrote, “is grounded on this universal maxim of the common law of England, that no man is to be brought into jeopardy of his life more than once for the same offence.” 15 Today, every State incorporates some form of the prohibition in its constitution or common law. 16 As this Court put it in Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187-188 (1957), “[t]he underlying *796 idea, one that is deeply ingrained in at least the Anglo-American system of jurisprudence, is that the State with all its resources and power should not be allowed to make repeated attempts to convict an individual for an alleged offense, thereby subjecting him to embarrassment, expense and ordeal and compelling him to live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity, as well as enhancing the possibility that even though innocent he may be found guilty.” This underlying notion has from the very beginning been part of our constitutional tradition.  Like the right to trial by jury, it is clearly “fundamental to the American scheme of justice.” The validity of petitioner’s larceny conviction must be judged, not by the watered-down standard enunciated in <citedDecision>Palko</citedDecision> , but under this Court’s interpretations of the Fifth Amendment double jeopardy provision.  IV. It is clear that petitioner’s larceny conviction cannot stand once federal double jeopardy standards are applied.  Petitioner was acquitted of larceny in his first trial. Because he decided to appeal his burglary conviction, he is forced to suffer retrial on the larceny count as well.  As this Court held in Green v. United States, supra, at 193— 194, “[conditioning an appeal of one offense on a coerced surrender of a valid plea of former jeopardy on another offense exacts a forfeiture in plain conflict with the constitutional bar against double jeopardy.” Maryland argues that Green does not apply to this case because petitioner’s original indictment was absolutely void.  One cannot be placed in “jeopardy” by a void indictment, the State argues.  This argument sounds a bit strange, however, since petitioner could quietly have served out his sentence under this “void” indictment had he not appealed his burglary conviction.  Only by accepting the option of a new trial could the in *797 dictment be set aside; at worst the indictment would seem only voidable at the defendant’s option, not absolutely void.