**Dissenting Opinion**
 Had petitioner not appealed his burglary conviction, the State would surely have allowed him to rest on his larceny acquittal and merely serve out his burglary sentence.  However, the State argues that the burglary and larceny counts were originally contained in a single indictment; that upon petitioner’s appeal the indictment was declared totally void and the trial court found to have lacked jurisdiction; and that the State could then proceed as if there had never been a previous indictment or trial. The State’s contention that petitioner’s first trial was a complete nullity because the trial court “lacked juris *811 diction” is unconvincing.  As has been noted, it appears that the State would willingly have seen petitioner serve out the burglary sentence imposed in consequence of that trial. Under state procedure, petitioner could avail himself of the “jurisdictional” defect only by appealing his conviction.  The crucial issue, therefore, is what legitimate interest had the State in compelling petitioner to jeopardize his larceny acquittal as a condition of appealing his burglary conviction?  I can perceive no legitimate state interest.  Certainly it is the purest fiction to say that by appealing his burglary conviction petitioner “waived” his right not to be retried for larceny or “consented” to retrial on that charge.  The notion of “waiver” was first employed in United States v. Ball, <citedDecision>163 U. S. 662</citedDecision> (1896), to justify retrial of an accused for the same offense following reversal of a conviction on appeal.  The “waiver” doctrine was more fully articulated in Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 621 (1905), where it was held that retrial and conviction for murder following a successful appeal from a manslaughter conviction did not violate the Double Jeopardy Clause.  15 Trono apparently dictated the result in Brantley v. Georgia, 217 U. S. 284 (1910), in which the Court held in a brief per curiam, without citing any authority, that a Georgia retrial and conviction for murder following the reversal on appeal of an earlier manslaughter conviction did not amount to “a case of twice in jeopardy under any view of the Constitution of the United States.” Id., at 285 .  16 We have since *812 recognized that the “waiver” rationale is a “conceptual abstraction” which obscures rather than illuminates the underlying clash of societal and individual interests.  See United States v. Tateo, 377 U. S. 463, 466 (1964).  Accordingly, I do not think that the reasoning in Trono or the apparent holding in Brantley , insofar as they would require affirmance of petitioner’s larceny conviction, can any longer be regarded as good law. Nor did the State in the present case have the sorts of interests which have been held to justify retrial for the same offense after a conviction has been reversed on appeal by the accused and in the more unusual case when an acquittal has been set aside following an appeal by the State.  17 When the accused has obtained a reversal on appeal, the societal interest in convicting the guilty has been deemed too weighty to permit every such accused to be “granted immunity from punishment because of any defect sufficient to constitute reversible error in the proceedings leading to conviction.” United States v. Tateo, supra, at 466 .