**Lead Opinion**
 It is not an assertion of the right on the part of the Government, always recognized under English and American law, to search the person of the accused when legally arrested to discover and seize the fruits or evidences of crime.” Id., at 392 .  That statement made no reference to any right to search the place where an arrest occurs, but was limited to a right to search the “person.” Eleven years later the case of Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132 , brought the following embellishment of the Weeks statement: “When a man is legally arrested for an offense, whatever is found upon his person or in his control which it is unlawful for him to have and which may be used to prove the offense may be seized and held *756 as evidence in the prosecution.” Id., at 158.  (Emphasis added.) Still, that assertion too was far from a claim that the “place” where one is arrested may be searched so long as the arrest is valid.  Without explanation, however, the principle emerged in expanded form a few months later in Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20 — although still by way of dictum: “The right without a search warrant contemporaneously to search persons lawfully arrested while committing crime and to search the place where the arrest is made in order to find and seize things connected with the crime as its fruits or as the means by which it was committed, as well as weapons and other things to effect an escape from custody, is not to be doubted.  See Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 158 ; Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 392 .” 269 U. S., at 30 .  And in Marron v. United States, <citedDecision>275 U. S. 192</citedDecision> , two years later, the dictum of Agnello appeared to be the foundation of the Court’s decision.  In that case federal agents had secured a search, warrant authorizing the seizure of liquor and certain articles used in its manufacture.  When they arrived at the premises to be searched, they saw “that the place was used for retailing and drinking intoxicating liquors.” Id., at 194.  They proceeded to arrest the person in charge and to execute the warrant.  In searching a closet for the items listed in the warrant they came across an incriminating ledger, concededly not covered by the warrant, which they also seized.  The Court upheld the seizure of the ledger by holding that since the agents had made a lawful arrest, “[t]hey had a right without a warrant contemporaneously to search the place in order to find and seize the things used to carry on the criminal enterprise.” Id., at 199.  *757 That the <citedDecision>Marron</citedDecision> opinion did not mean all that it seemed to say became evident, however, a few years later in Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 344 , and United States v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452 .  In each of those cases the opinion of the Court was written by Mr. Justice Butler, the author of the opinion in <citedDecision>Marron</citedDecision> .  In Go-Bart, agents had searched the office of persons whom they had lawfully arrested, 2 and had taken several papers from a desk, a safe, and other parts of the office.  The Court noted that no crime had been committed in the agents’ presence, and that although the agent in charge “had an abundance of information and time to swear out a valid [search] warrant, he failed to do so.” 282 U. S., at 358 .  In holding the search and seizure unlawful, the Court stated: “Plainly the case before us is essentially different from Marron v. United States, <citedDecision>275 U. S. 192</citedDecision> .  There, officers executing a valid search warrant for intoxicating liquors found and arrested one Birdsall who in pursuance of a conspiracy was actually engaged in running a saloon.  As an incident to the arrest they seized a ledger in a closet where the liquor or some of it was kept and some bills beside the cash register.  These things were visible and accessible and in the offender’s immediate custody.  There was no threat of force or general search or rummaging of the place.” 282 U. S., at 358 .  This limited characterization of <citedDecision>Marron</citedDecision> was reiterated in Lefkowitz , a case in which the Court held unlawful a search of desk drawers and a cabinet despite the fact that the search had accompanied a lawful arrest.  285 U. S., at 465 .  The limiting views expressed in Go-Bart and Lefkowitz were thrown to the winds, however, in Harris v. United *758 States, 331 U. S. 145 , decided in 1947.  In that case, officers had obtained a warrant for Harris’ arrest on the basis of his alleged involvement with the cashing and interstate transportation of a forged check.  He was arrested in the living room of his four-room apartment, and in an attempt to recover two canceled checks thought to have been used in effecting the forgery, the officers undertook a thorough search of the entire apartment.  Inside a desk drawer they found a sealed envelope marked “George Harris, personal papers.” The envelope, which was then torn open, was found to contain altered Selective Service documents, and those documents were used to secure Harris’ conviction for violating the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.  The Court rejected Harris’ Fourth Amendment claim, sustaining the search as “incident to arrest.” Id., at 151 .