**Lead Opinion**
 “The right to vote freely for the candidate of one’s choice is of the essence of a democratic society, and any restrictions on that right strike at the heart of representative government.  And the right of suffrage can be denied by a debasement or dilution of the weight of a citizen’s vote just as effectively as by wholly prohibiting the free exercise of the franchise.” 377 U. S., at 555 .  We have said enough to indicate why MacDougall v. Green is out of line with our recent apportionment cases. The use of nominating petitions by independents to obtain a place on the Illinois ballot is an integral part of her elective system.  See People v. Election Commissioners, 221 Ill. 9, 18 , 77 N. E. 321 , 323.  All procedures used by a State as an integral part of the election process must pass muster against the charges of discrimination or of abridgment of the right to vote.  United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 314-318 ; Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649, 664 .  Dusch v. Davis, <citedDecision>387 U. S. 112</citedDecision> , is not relevant to the problem of this case. There each councilman was required to be a resident of the borough from which he was elected.  Like the residence requirement for state senators from a multi-district county (Fortson v. Dorsey, 379 U. S. 433 ), the place of residence did not mark the voting unit; for in <citedDecision>Dusch</citedDecision> all the electors in the city voted for each councilman.  It is no answer to the argument under the Equal Protection Clause that this law was designed to require statewide support for launching a new political party rather than support from a few localities.  This law applies a rigid, arbitrary formula to sparsely settled counties and populous counties alike, contrary to the constitutional *819 theme of equality among citizens in the exercise of their political rights.  The idea that one group can be granted greater voting strength than another is hostile to the one man, one vote basis of our representative government.  Under this Illinois law the electorate in 49 of the counties which contain 93.4% of the registered voters may not form a new political party and place its candidates on the ballot.  Yet 25,000 of the remaining 6.6% of registered voters properly distributed among the 53 remaining counties may form a new party to elect candidates to office.  This law thus discriminates against the residents of the populous counties of the State in favor of rural sections.