**Dissenting Opinion**
 See James v. United States, 366 U. S. 213, 233-234 (1961) (separate opin *260 ion of Black, J.).  * Even on statutory questions the appearance of new facts or changes in circumstances might warrant re-examination of past decisions in exceptional cases under exceptional circumstances.  In the present situation there are no such circumstances.  Congress has taken no action inconsistent with our decision in Sinclair.  Girouard v. United States, 328 U. S. 61, 70 (1946).  And, although bills have been introduced, cf. Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119-120 (1940), Congress has declined the invitation to act.  The only “subsequent event” to which the Court can point is our decision in Avco Corp. v. Aero Lodge 735, <citedDecision>390 U. S. 557</citedDecision> (1968).  The Court must recognize that the holding of Avco is in no way inconsistent with Sinclair.  As we said in <citedDecision>Avco, supra,</citedDecision> at 561: “The nature of the relief available after jurisdiction attaches is, of course, different from the question whether there is jurisdiction to adjudicate the controversy.” The Court contends, however, that the result of the two cases taken together is the “anomalous situation” that no-strike clauses become unenforceable in state courts, and this is inconsistent with “an important goal of our national labor policy.” *261 Avco does make any effort to enforce a no-strike clause in a state court removable to a federal court, but it does not follow that the no-strike clause is unenforceable.  Damages may be awarded; the union may be forced to arbitrate.  And the employer may engage in self-help.  The Court would have it that these techniques are less effective than an injunction.  That is doubtless true.  But the harshness and effectiveness of injunctive relief- — and opposition to “government by injunction” — were the precise reasons for the congressional prohibition in the Norris-LaGuardia Act.  The effect of the Avco decision is, indeed, to highlight the limited remedial powers of federal courts.