**Lead Opinion**
 The following day, since the strike had not been terminated, petitioner filed a complaint in California *240 Superior Court seeking a temporary restraining order, a preliminary and permanent injunction, and specific performance of the contractual arbitration provision.  The state court issued a temporary restraining order forbidding continuation of the strike and also an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not be granted.  Shortly thereafter, the union removed the case to the Federal District Court and there made a motion to quash the state court’s temporary restraining order.  In opposition, petitioner moved for an order compelling arbitration and enjoining continuation of the strike.  Concluding that the dispute was subject to arbitration under the collective-bargaining agreement and that the strike was in violation of the contract, the District Court ordered the parties to arbitrate the underlying dispute and simultaneously enjoined the strike, all picketing in the vicinity of petitioner’s supermarket, and any attempts by the union to induce the employees to strike or to refuse to perform their services.  II At the outset, we are met with respondent’s contention that Sinclair ought not to be disturbed because the decision turned on a question of statutory construction which Congress can alter at any time.  Since Congress has not modified our conclusions in Sinclair, even though it has been urged to do so, 5 respondent argues that principles of stare decisis should govern the present case. We do not agree that the doctrine of stare decisis bars a re-examination of Sinclair in the circumstances of this case. We fully recognize that important policy considerations militate in favor of continuity and predictability in the law. Nevertheless, as Mr. Justice Frankfurter *241 wrote for the Court, “[Sitare decisis is a principle of policy and not a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision, however recent and questionable, when such adherence involves collision with a prior doctrine more embracing in its scope, intrinsically sounder, and verified by experience.” Helvering v. Hallock, <citedDecision>309 U. S. 106, 119</citedDecision> (1940).  See Swift & Co. v. Wickham, 382 U. S. 111, 116 (1965).  It is precisely because Sinclair stands as a significant departure from our otherwise consistent emphasis upon the congressional policy to promote the peaceful settlement of labor disputes through arbitration 6 and our efforts to accommodate and harmonize this policy with those underlying the anti-injunction provisions of the Norris-LaGuardia Act 7 that we believe Sinclair should be reconsidered.  Furthermore, in light of developments subsequent to Sinclair, in particular our decision in Avco Corp. v. Aero Lodge 735, 390 U. S. 557 (1968), it has become clear that the Sinclair decision does not further but rather frustrates realization of an important goal of our national labor policy.  Nor can we agree that conclusive weight should be accorded to the failure of Congress to respond to Sinclair on the theory that congressional silence should be interpreted as acceptance of the decision.  The Court has cautioned that “[i]t is at best treacherous to find in congressional silence alone the adoption of a controlling rule of law.” Girouard v. United States, 328 U. S. 61, 69 *242 (1946).  Therefore, in the absence of any persuasive circumstances evidencing a clear design that congressional inaction be taken as acceptance of Sinclair, the mere silence of Congress is not a sufficient reason for refusing to reconsider the decision.  <citedDecision>Helvering</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hallock, supra, at 119-120</citedDecision> .  Ill From the time Textile Workers Union v. Lincoln Mills, 353 U. S. 448 (1957), was decided, we have frequently found it necessary to consider various substantive and procedural aspects of federal labor contract law and questions concerning its application in both state and federal courts.  Lincoln Mills held generally that “the substantive law to apply in suits under § 301 (a) is federal law, which the courts must fashion from the policy of our national labor laws,” 353 U. S., at 456 , and more specifically that a union can obtain specific performance of an employer’s promise to arbitrate grievances.  We rejected the contention that the anti-injunction proscriptions of the Norris-LaGuardia Act prohibited this type of relief, noting that a refusal to arbitrate was not “part and parcel of the abuses against which the Act was aimed,” id., at 458 , and that the Act itself manifests a policy determination that arbitration should be encouraged.  See 29 U. S. C. § 108 .  8 Subsequently in the Steelworkers *243 Trilogy 9 we emphasized the importance of arbitration as an instrument of federal policy for resolving disputes between labor and management and cautioned the lower courts against usurping the functions of the arbitrator.  Serious questions remained, however, concerning the role that state courts were to play in suits involving collective-bargaining agreements.