**Dissenting Opinion**
 II The first inquiry is whether a state prisoner can, prior to trial, raise the claim of the denial of a right to a speedy trial by petitioning a federal court for writ of habeas corpus.  The Court reasons that since Peyton v. Rowe, supra, “discarded the prematurity doctrine,” ante, at 488, “petitioner is entitled to raise his speedy trial claim on federal habeas corpus.” Petitioner filed this petition alleging federal jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 2241 , 2254.  Section 2254 pertains only to a prisoner in custody.  pursuant to a judgment of conviction of a state court; in the context of the attempt to assert a right to a speedy trial, there is simply no § 2254 trap to “ensnare” petitioner, such as the court below felt existed.  The issue here is whether habeas corpus is warranted under § 2241 (c) (3); that section empowers district courts to issue the writ, inter alia, before a judgment is rendered in a criminal proceeding.  It is in the context of an application for federal habeas *504 corpus by a state prisoner prior to any trial in a state court that the effect of the instant decision must be analyzed.  The Court reasons that since Smith v. Hooey, <citedDecision>393 U. S. 374</citedDecision> (1969), held that a State must, consistent with the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments, “make a diligent, good-faith effort to bring” a prisoner to trial on a state indictment even though he is incarcerated in another jurisdiction, <citedDecision>id., at 383</citedDecision> , and, since Peyton v. Rowe, supra, overruled “the prematurity doctrine,” therefore, a prisoner can attack in a federal habeas corpus proceeding the validity of an indictment lodged against him in one State even though he is imprisoned in another.  I cannot agree with this reasoning.  In <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> , this Court held that a State must make an effort to try a person even though he was incarcerated in another jurisdiction.  That case did not, however, involve federal habeas corpus.  It came here on certiorari after the state court had denied a petition for a writ of mandamus seeking to have the underlying indictment dismissed.  The Texas Supreme Court had ruled that- the state courts had no power to order the federal prisoner produced for trial on the state indictment.  This Court reversed, holding that, in view of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendment guarantees of a speedy trial, the State must, after demand therefor, attempt to obtain the prisoner from the sovereignty with custody over the prisoner.  It by no means follows, however, that a state prisoner can assert the right to a speedy trial in a federal district court. The fundamental flaw in the reasoning of the Court is the assumption that since a prisoner has some “right” under <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hooey, supra,</citedDecision> he must have some forum in which affirmatively to assert that right, and that therefore the right may be vindicated in a federal district court under § 2241 (c)(3).  <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hooey</citedDecision> did *505 not, however, establish that a right distinct from the right to a speedy trial existed.  It merely held that a State could not totally rely on the fact that it could not order that a prisoner be brought from another jurisdiction as a justification for not attempting to try the defendant as expeditiously as possible.  The right to a speedy trial is, like other constitutional rights, a defense to a criminal charge, but one which, unlike others, increases in terms of potential benefit to the accused with the passage of time.  Barker v. Wingo, 407 U. S. 514 (1972).  The fact that a State must make an effort to obtain a defendant from another sovereign for trial but fails, after demand, to make an effort would weigh heavily in the defendant’s favor.  But <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hooey</citedDecision> does not necessarily imply that federal courts may, as the District Court did in this case, in effect, issue an injunction requiring a state court to conduct a criminal trial. If the State fails to perform its duty, <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hooey</citedDecision> , it must face the consequences of possibly not obtaining a conviction, Barker v. Wingo .  But the fact that the State has a duty by no means leads to the conclusion that the failure to perform that duty can be raised by a prospective defendant on federal habeas corpus in advance of trial. The history of habeas corpus and the principles of federalism strongly support the approach established by Ex parte Royall, supra, that, absent extraordinary circumstances, federal habeas corpus should not be used to adjudicate the merits of an affirmative defense to a state criminal charge prior to a judgment of conviction by a state court. The Court’s reasoning for allowing a state prisoner to resort to federal habeas corpus is that the prisoner is attacking the validity of a “future custody.” The Court relies on Peyton to justify federal jurisdiction.  Peyton , however, was in a significantly different procedural posture from the instant case. There, the Court held that a *506 state prisoner could challenge the constitutional validity of a sentence which he had not yet begun to serve when he was currently incarcerated pursuant to a valid conviction and sentence, but the sentence he sought to attack was to run consecutively to the valid sentence.  Even though a person may be “in custody” for purposes of §§ 2241 (c)(3), or 2254, if he has not yet begun to serve a sentence entered after a judgment of conviction, as the Court held in Peyton , it by no means follows that he is similarly “in custody” when no judgment of conviction has been entered or even any trial on the underlying charge conducted.  The Court’s suggestion that a person may challenge by way of federal habeas corpus any custody that might possibly be imposed at some time in the “future,” which suggestion unwarrantedly assumes both that a constitutional defense will be rejected and that the jury will convict, is not supported by the language or reasoning of Peyton .  Mr. Chief Justice Warren, writing for the Court in Peyton , emphasized the role of federal habeas corpus for state prisoners as “substantially a post-conviction device,” 391 U. S., at 60 , and “the instrument for resolving fact issues not adequately developed in the original proceedings.” Id., at 63 .  The Court there stated that the demise of the McNally rule would allow prisoners “the opportunity to challenge defective convictions.” Id., at 65 .  The Court here glosses over the disparate procedural posture of this case, and merely asserts, without analyzing the historical function of federal habeas corpus for state prisoners, that the rationale of Peyton is applicable to a pretrial, preconviction situation.  Citation to that decision cannot obscure the fact that the Court here makes a significant departure from previous decisions, a departure that certainly requires analysis and justification more detailed than that which the Court puts forth.  *507 There is no doubt that a prisoner such as petitioner can assert, by appropriate motion in the courts of the State in which the indictment was handed down, that he should be brought to trial on that charge.  <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Hooey, supra.</citedDecision> There is also no doubt that such a prisoner may petition a federal district court for a writ of habeas corpus prior to trial. See 28 U. S. C. § 2241 (c)(3).  What the Court here disregards, however, is almost a century of decisions of this Court to the effect that federal habeas corpus for state prisoners, prior to conviction, should not be granted absent truly extraordinary circumstances.  In Ex parte Royall, supra, the petitioner was indicted in state court for selling a bond coupon without a license.  Prior to trial on that indictment, he petitioned in federal court for a writ of habeas corpus, contending that the statute upon which the indictment was predicated violated the contract clause, insofar as it was applied to owners of coupons.  In holding that the (then) Circuit Court had the power to issue the writ but had properly exercised its discretion not to do so, the Court wrote: “That discretion should be exercised in the light of the relations existing, under our system of government, between the judicial tribunals of the Union and of the States, and in recognition of the fact that the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed by unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound to guard and protect rights secured by the Constitution.” 117 U. S., at 251 .  The judicial approach set forth in Ex parte Royall— that federal courts should not, absent extraordinary circumstances, interfere with the judicial administration and process of state courts prior to trial and conviction, even though the state prisoner claims that he is held in violation of the Constitution — has been consistently followed.  Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183 (1892) (custody *508 alleged to violate Art. 4, § 2); New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89 (1894) (custody alleged to violate Supremacy Clause); Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231 (1895) (custody alleged in violation of Constitution due to improper extradition); Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1 (1906) (custody alleged to violate Supremacy Clause).