**Lead Opinion**
 II We granted certiorari to resolve a sharp conflict among the federal courts 2 on the choice of forum where a prisoner attacks an interstate detainer on federal habeas corpus.  Before turning to that question, we must make clear that petitioner is entitled to raise his speedy trial claim on federal habeas corpus at this time.  First, he is currently “in custody” within the meaning of the federal habeas corpus statute, 28 U. S. C. §2241 (c)(3).  Prior to our decision in Peyton v. Rowe, 391 U. S. 54 (1968), the “prematurity doctrine” of McNally v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131 (1934), would, of course, have barred his petition for relief.  3 But our decision in Peyton v. Rowe discarded the prematurity doctrine, which had permitted *489 a prisoner to attack on habeas corpus only his current confinement, and not confinement that would be imposed in the future, and opened the door to this action.  4 Second, petitioner has exhausted all available state remedies as a prelude to this action.  It is true, of course, that he has not yet been tried on the Kentucky indictment, and he can assert a speedy trial defense when, and if, he is finally brought to trial. It is also true, as our Brother Rehnquist points out in dissent, that federal habeas corpus does not lie, absent “special circumstances,” to adjudicate the merits of an affirmative defense to a state criminal charge prior to a judgment of conviction by a state court. Ex parte Royall, <citedDecision>117 U. S. 241, 253</citedDecision> (1886).  Petitioner does not, however, seek at this time to litigate a federal defense to a criminal charge, but only *490 to demand enforcement of the Commonwealth’s affirmative constitutional obligation to bring him promptly to trial. Smith v. Hooey, 393 U. S. 374 (1969).  He has made repeated demands for trial to the courts of Kentucky, offering those courts an opportunity to consider on the merits his constitutional claim of the present denial of a speedy trial. Under these circumstances it is clear that he has exhausted all available state court remedies for consideration of that constitutional claim, even though Kentucky has not yet brought him to trial. .  The exhaustion doctrine is a judicially crafted instrument which reflects a careful balance between important interests of federalism and the need to preserve the writ of habeas corpus as a “swift and imperative remedy in all cases of illegal restraint or confinement.” Secretary of State for Home Affairs v. O’Brien, [1923] A. C. 603, 609 (H. L.).  It cannot be used as a blunderbuss to shatter the attempt at litigation of constitutional claims without regard to the purposes that underlie the doctrine and that called it into existence.  As applied in our earlier decisions, the doctrine “preserves the role of the state courts in the application and enforcement of federal law. Early federal intervention in state criminal proceedings would tend to remove federal questions from the state courts, isolate those courts from constitutional issues, and thereby remove their understanding of and hospitality to federally protected interests.  Second, [the doctrine] preserves orderly administration of state judicial business, preventing the interruption of state adjudication by federal habeas proceedings.  It is important that petitioners reach state appellate courts, which can develop and correct errors of state and federal law and most effectively supervise and *491 impose uniformity on trial courts.” Note, Developments in the Law — Federal Habeas Corpus, 83 Harv. L. Rev. 1038 , 1094 (1970).  See Darr v. Burford, 339 U. S. 200, 204-206 (1950), and the case which overruled it, Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 417-420 (1963).  See also <citedDecision>Ex parte Royall, supra, at 251-252</citedDecision> ; Ex parte Hawk, 321 U. S. 114 (1944); cf. Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971); Stefanelli v. Minard, 342 U. S. 117 (1951).  The fundamental interests underlying the exhaustion doctrine have been fully satisfied in petitioner's situation.  He has already presented his federal constitutional claim of a present denial of a speedy trial to the courts of Kentucky.  The state courts rejected the claim, apparently on the ground that since he had once escaped from custody the Commonwealth should not be obligated to incur the risk of another escape by returning him for trial. Petitioner exhausted all available state court opportunities to establish his position that the prior escape did not obviate the Commonwealth’s duty under Smith v. Hooey, supra. Moreover, petitioner made no effort to abort a state proceeding or to disrupt the orderly functioning of state judicial processes.  He comes to federal court, not in an effort to forestall a state prosecution, but to enforce the Commonwealth’s obligation to provide him with a state court forum.  He delayed his application for federal relief until the state courts had conclusively determined that his prosecution was temporarily moribund.  Since petitioner began serving the second' of two 10-year Alabama sentences in March 1972, the revival of the prosecution may be delayed until as late as 1982.