**Dissenting Opinion**
 The Court construed the phrase “within their respective jurisdictions” to mean that Congress intended to limit the jurisdiction of a district court to prisoners in custody within its territorial jurisdiction.  Id., at 193 .  The Court here says that the “language” of Ahrens “indicates” the result reached below.  The explicit holding of the Court, however, is plainly much more than an “indication.” “Thus the view that the jurisdiction of the District Court to issue the writ in cases such as this is restricted to those petitioners who are confined or detained within the territorial jurisdiction of the court is supported by the language of the statute, by considerations of policy, and by the legislative history of the enactment.  We therefore do not feel free to weigh the policy considerations which are advanced for giving district courts discretion in cases like this.  If that concept is to be imported into this statute, Congress must do so.” Id., at 192-193 (emphasis added; footnote omitted).  The result reached today may be desirable from the point of view of sound judicial administration, see Ahrens v. Clark, supra, at 191 ; Nelson v. George, <citedDecision>399 U. S. 224</citedDecision> , 228 n. 5 (1970).  It is the function of this Court, however, to ascertain the intent of Congress as to the mean *510 ing of “within their respective jurisdictions.” Having completed that task in Ahrens , it is the function of Congress to amend the statute if this Court misinterpreted congressional intent or if subsequent developments suggest the desirability, from a policy viewpoint, of alterations in the statute.  See Cleveland v. United States, 329 U. S. 14 (1946).  We noted in <citedDecision>Nelson</citedDecision> that the resolution of any apparent dilemma “caused” by this Court’s holding in Ahrens is appropriately one to be undertaken by Congress.  <citedDecision>399 U. S., at 228</citedDecision> n. 5.  Legislative “inaction” in amending a statute to comport with this Court’s evaluation of “[s]ound judicial administration” hardly warrants the disingenuous reading of a previous decision to achieve the result that Congress, despite judicial prodding, has refused to mandate.  However impatient we may be with a federal statute which sometimes may fail to provide a remedy for every situation, one would have thought it inappropriate for the Court to amend the statute by judicial action.  The Court lists several “developments” that have somehow undercut the validity, in the Court’s opinion, of the statutory interpretation of the phrase “within their respective jurisdictions.” As the amended § 2255 is relevant only to federal prisoners collaterally attacking a conviction, and as § 2241 (d) applies only to intrastate jurisdiction, the relevance of the amendments with respect to the jurisdictional requirement of § 2241 (c) (3) is not a little obscure.  The interpretation of the phrase “within their respective jurisdictions” in Ahrens is hardly incompatible with these recent amendments of statutes dealing with situations not involving the interstate transportation of state prisoners.  The further argument that Burns v. Wilson, 346 U. S. 137 (1953), “undermines” Ahrens overlooks the fact that the Court in Ahrens specifically reserved that question, 335 U. S., at 192 n. 4, the resolution of which is by no means an explicit rejec *511 tion of Ahrens .  Finally, the fact that this Court has expanded the notion of “custody” for habeas corpus purposes hardly supports, much less compels, the rejection of a statutory construction of an unrelated phrase.