**Combined Opinion**
 The majority made no effort to distinguish Quaker City Cab beyond saying that it did not involve, as did White River, back taxes.  Id., at 696 .  *363 In Rapid Transit Co. v. New York, 303 U. S. 573 , an excise tax was levied on every utility but not on other business units. In sustaining the tax against the claim of lack of equal protection, the Court said: “Since carriers or other utilities with the right of eminent domain, the use of public property, special franchises or public contracts, have many points of distinction from other businesses, including relative freedom from competition, especially significant with increasing density of population and municipal expansion, these public service organizations have no valid ground by virtue of the equal protection clause to object to separate treatment related to such distinctions.” Id., at 579 .  We reached the same result in Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362 , where Tennessee had used one system for making assessments under its ad valorem tax law as respects most taxpayers and a totally different one for public service corporations.  So far as equal protection was concerned, we said that the grievance of the particular complainant was “common to the whole class” and not “invidious to a particular taxpayer.” 5 Id., at 368 .  *364 Approval of the treatment “with that separateness” which distinguishes public service corporations from others, ibid., leads us to conclude in the present cases that making corporations and like entities, but not individuals, liable for ad valorem taxes on personal property does not transcend the requirements of equal protection.  In Madden v. Kentucky, <citedDecision>309 U. S. 83</citedDecision> , a State laid an ad valorem tax of 50$ per $100 on deposits in banks outside the State and only 10(i per $1,000 on deposits within the State.  The classification was sustained against the charge of invidious discrimination, the Court noting that “in taxation, even more than in other fields, legislatures possess the greatest freedom in classification.” <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 88</citedDecision> .  There is a presumption of constitutionality which can be overcome “only by the most explicit demonstration that a classification is a hostile and oppressive discrimination against particular persons and classes.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> And the Court added, “The burden is on the one attacking the legislative arrangement to negative every conceivable basis which might support it.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> That idea has been elaborated.  Thus, in Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495 , the Court, in sustaining an unemployment tax on employers, 6 said: “A state legislature, in the enactment of laws, has the widest possible latitude within the limits of the Constitution.  In the nature of the case it cannot record a complete catalogue of, the considerations which move its members to enact laws.  In the absence of such a record courts cannot assume that its action is capricious, or that, with its informed acquaintance with local conditions to which the legis *365 lation is to be applied, it was not aware of facts which afford reasonable basis for its action.  Only by faithful adherence to this guiding principle of judicial review of legislation is it possible to preserve to the legislative branch its rightful independence and its ability to function.” Id., at 510 .  Illinois tells us that the individual personal property tax was discriminatory, unfair, almost impossible to administer, and economically unsound.  Assessment practices varied from district to district.