**Combined Opinion**
 Id., at 403-412 .  Mr. Justice Holmes stated: “If usually there is an important difference of degree between the business done by corporations and that done by individuals, I see no reason why the larger businesses may not be taxed and the small ones disregarded, and I think it would be immaterial if here and there exceptions were found to the general rule.  .  .  .  Furthermore if the State desired to discourage this form of activity in corporate form and expressed its desire by a special tax I think that there is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent it.” Id., at 403 .  Each of these dissenters thought Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., <citedDecision>220 U. S. 107</citedDecision> , should govern Quaker City Cab.  The <citedDecision>Flint</citedDecision> case involved a federal tax upon the privilege of doing business in a corporate capacity, but it was not laid on businesses carried on by a partnership or private individual.  It was, therefore, contended that the tax was “so unequal and arbitrary” as to be beyond the power of Congress.  <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 158</citedDecision> .  We had not yet held that the Fifth Amendment in its use of due process carries a mandate of equal protection.  4 But the Court in dictum stated: “[I]t could not be said, even if the principles of the Fourteenth Amendment were applicable to the present case, that there is no substantial difference be *362 tween the carrying on of business by the corporations taxed, and the same business when conducted by a private firm or individual.  The thing taxed is not the mere dealing in merchandise, in which the actual transactions may be the same, whether conducted by individuals or corporations, but the tax is laid upon the privileges which exist in conducting business with the advantages which inhere in the corporate capacity of those taxed, and which are not enjoyed by private firms or individuals.  These advantages are obvious, and have led to the formation of such companies in nearly all branches of trade.  The continuity of the business, without interruption by death or dissolution, the transfer of property interests by the disposition of shares of stock, the advantages of business controlled and managed by corporate directors, the general absence of individual liability, these and other things inhere in the advantages of business thus conducted, which do not exist when the same business is conducted by private individuals or partnerships.  It is this distinctive privilege which is the subject of taxation, not the mere buying or selling or handling of goods which may be the same, whether done by corporations or individuals.” <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 161-162</citedDecision> .  While Quaker City Cab came after <citedDecision>Flint</citedDecision> , cases following Quaker City Cab have somewhat undermined it.  White River Co. v. Arkansas, 279 U. S. 692 , involved a state statute for collection of back taxes on lands owned by corporations but not individuals.  The Court sustained the statute.  Mr. Justice Butler, Mr. Chief justice Taft, and Mr. Justice Van Devanter dissented, asserting that Quaker City Cab was not distinguishable.  The majority made no effort to distinguish Quaker City Cab beyond saying that it did not involve, as did White River, back taxes.  Id., at 696 .  *363 In Rapid Transit Co. v. New York, 303 U. S. 573 , an excise tax was levied on every utility but not on other business units. In sustaining the tax against the claim of lack of equal protection, the Court said: “Since carriers or other utilities with the right of eminent domain, the use of public property, special franchises or public contracts, have many points of distinction from other businesses, including relative freedom from competition, especially significant with increasing density of population and municipal expansion, these public service organizations have no valid ground by virtue of the equal protection clause to object to separate treatment related to such distinctions.” Id., at 579 .