**Combined Opinion**
 Only in very few situations, where intermediate rulings may carry serious public consequences, has there been a departure from this requirement of finality for federal appellate jurisdiction.  This prerequisite to review derives added force when the jurisdiction of this Court is invoked to upset the decision of a State court. Here we are in the realm of potential conflict between the courts of two different governments.  And so, ever since 1789, Congress has granted this Court the power to intervene *160 in State litigation only after 'the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had’ has rendered a 'final judgment or decree.’ § 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. §344 (a).  This requirement is not one of those technicalities to be easily scorned.  It is an important factor in the smooth working of our federal system.” But, as he pointed out, this concept of “finality” has a “penumbral area.” Ibid. Speaking for the Court in that case, he held that Nebraska’s ruling on the legality of a radio license issued by the Federal Communications Commission could be reviewed even though the state court had not yet determined the final accounting.  He stated: “Of course, where the remaining litigation may raise other federal questions that may later come here ... to allow review of an mtermediate adjudication would offend the decisive objection to fragmentary reviews.” Id., at 127 .  Mills v. Alabama, <citedDecision>384 U. S. 214</citedDecision> , involved the constitutionality of a state statute in effect making it a crime for a newspaper editor on election day to urge people to vote a certain way on the issues being submitted.  The state court held the act did not violate the Federal Constitution and remanded the case for trial. It was argued that the judgment was not “final” for purposes of 28 U. S. C. § 1257 .  We noted that the point had “a surface plausibility, since it is true the judgment of the State Supreme Court did not literally end the case.” <citedDecision>384 U. S., at 217</citedDecision> .  We held it “final,” however, because if the Act were constitutional the editor wbuld in reality have no defense.  Since conviction seemed likely, we concluded that to deny review at that stage would “result in a completely unnecessary waste of time and energy in judicial systems already troubled by delays due to congested dockets.” <citedDecision>
   Id.,
  
  at 217-218</citedDecision> .  In Hudson Distributors, Inc. v. Eli Lilly & Co., 377 U. S. 386 , the question on the merits was whether the require *161 ment of a state act setting minimum retail prices was consonant with federal law. The state court held the state act constitutional under both the State and the Federal Constitutions and remanded the case for further proceedings.  In reliance on Curry and on Langdeau 4 we held that the fact that there were to be further proceedings in the state court did not render the state judgment “nonfinal or unappealable within the meaning of 28 U. S. C. § 1257 .” Id., at 389 n. 4.  The exceptions noted 5 have a long lineage dating back *162 to Mr. Chief Justice Taney’s opinion in Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201 , where the Court held “final” an interlocutory decree requiring a litigant “to deliver up property which he claims,” even though a final accounting has yet to be made.  Id., at 205 .  Unless that interlocutory order was deemed “final,” Mr. Chief Justice Taney pointed out, the “right of appeal is of very little value to him and he may be ruined before he is permitted to avail himself of the right.” Ibid. It is equally important that we treat the judgment in the instant case as “final,” for we have discovered no way which the licensing authority in North Dakota has of preserving the constitutional question now ripe for decision.  The Board here denied respondent’s application without an evidentiary hearing since the application showed that under the North Dakota Act respondent could in no way qualify for a license.