**Dissenting Opinion**
 1 The complaint alleges violations of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and also violations of the Social Security Act.  Hence § 1983 is satisfied in haec verba, for a deprivation of “rights” which are “secured by the Constitution and laws” is alleged.  The Court of Appeals, though ruling that the alleged constitutional violations had not occurred, sustained federal jurisdiction because federal “rights” were violated.  The main issue tendered us is whether that ruling of the Court of Appeals is consistent with the Eleventh Amendment.  2 *680 Once the federal court had jurisdiction over the case, the fact that it ruled adversely to the claimant on the constitutional claim did not deprive it of its pendent jurisdiction over the statutory claim.  United States v. Georgia Pub. Serv. Comm’n, 371 U. S. 285, 287-288 .  In Ex parte Young, <citedDecision>209 U. S. 123</citedDecision> , a suit by stockholders of a railroad was brought in a federal court against state officials to enjoin the imposition of confiscatory rates on the railroad in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.  The Eleventh Amendment was interposed as a defense.  The Court rejected the defense, saying that state officials with authority to enforce state laws “who threaten and are about to commence proceedings, either of a civil or criminal nature, to enforce against parties affected an unconstitutional act, violating the Federal Constitution, may be enjoined by a Federal court of equity from such action.” <citedDecision>Id., at 156</citedDecision> .  The Court went on to say that a state official seeking to enforce in the name of a State an unconstitutional act “comes into conflict with the superior authority of that Constitution, and he is in that case stripped of his official or representative character and is subjected in his person to the consequence of his individual conduct.  The State has no power to impart to him any immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of the United States.” <citedDecision>Id., at 159-160</citedDecision> .  As the complaint in the instant case alleges violations by officials of Illinois of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, it seems that the case is governed by Ex parte Young so far as injunctive relief is concerned.  The main thrust of the argument is that the.  instant case asks for relief which if granted would .affect the treasury of the State.  Most welfare decisions by federal courts have a fi *681 nancial impact on the States.  Under the existing federal-state cooperative system, a state desiring to participate, submits a “state plan” to HEW for approval; once HEW approves the plan the State is locked into the cooperative scheme until it withdraws, 3 all as described in King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309 , 316 et seq. The welfare cases coming here have involved ultimately the financial responsibility of the State to beneficiaries claiming they were deprived of federal rights.  King v. Smith required payment to children even though their mother was co-habitating with a man who could not pass muster as a *682 “parent.” Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U. S. 397 , held that under this state-federal cooperative program a State could not reduce its standard of need in conflict with the federal standard.