**Dissenting Opinion**
 equity” then Ex parte Young should be overruled.  But there is none eager to take the step.  Where a State has consented to join a federal-state cooperative project, it is realistic to conclude that the State has agreed to assume its obligations under that legislation.  There is nothing in the Eleventh Amendment to suggest a difference between suits at law and suits in equity, for it treats the two without distinction.  If common sense has any role to play in constitutional adjudication, once there is a waiver of immunity it must be true that it is complete so far as effective operation of the state-federal joint welfare program is concerned.  *686 We have not always been unanimous in concluding when a State has waived its immunity.  In Parden v. Terminal R. Co., <citedDecision>377 U. S. 184</citedDecision> , where Alabama was sued by some of its citizens for injuries suffered in the interstate operation of an Alabama railroad, the State defended on the grounds of the Eleventh Amendment.  The Court held that Alabama was liable as a carrier under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, saying: “Our conclusion is simply that Alabama, when it began operation of an interstate railroad approximately 20 years after enactment of the FELA, necessarily consented to such suit as was authorized by that Act,” <citedDecision>id., at 192</citedDecision> .  The Court added: “Our conclusion that this suit may be maintained is in accord with the common sense of this Nation’s federalism.  A State’s immunity from suit by an individual without its consent has been fully recognized by the Eleventh Amendment and by subsequent decisions of this Court. But when a State leaves the sphere that is exclusively its own and enters into activities subject to congressional regulation, it subjects itself to that regulation as fully as if it were a private person or corporation.” <citedDecision>Id., at 196</citedDecision> .  As the Court of Appeals in the instant case concluded, Illinois by entering into the joint federal-state welfare plan just as surely “ [left] the sphere that is exclusively its own.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> It is argued that participation in the program of federal financial assistance is not sufficient to establish consent on the part of the State to be sued in federal courts.  But it is not merely participation which supports a finding of Eleventh Amendment waiver, but *687 participation in light of the existing state of the law as exhibited in such decisions as Shapiro v. Thompson, 394 U. S. 618 , which affirmed judgments ordering retroactive payment of benefits.  Today's holding that the Eleventh Amendment forbids court-ordered retroactive payments, as the Court recognizes, necessitates an express overruling of several of our recent decisions.  But it was against the background of those decisions that Illinois continued its participation in the federal program, and it can hardly be claimed that such participation was in ignorance of the possibility of court-ordered retroactive payments.  The decision to .participate against that background of precedent can only be viewed as a waiver of immunity from such judgments.  I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.  Effective January 1, 1974, this AABD program was replaced by a similar program.  See 42 U. S. C. §§ 801-805 (1970 ed., Supp. II).  The program in Illinois is administered by the Department of Public Aid.  Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 23, §§3-1 to 3-12 (1973).  The former program was funded in part by the State and in part by the Federal Government.  42 U. S. C. §§ 303 , 304, 306, 1201-1204, 1206, 1351-1355, 1381-1385.  The Eleventh Amendment provides: “The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.” As the Court, speaking through MR. Justice Brennan, said in Parden v. Terminal R. Co., <citedDecision>377 U. S. 184</citedDecision> , 186: “Although the Eleventh Amendment is not in terms applicable here, since petitioners are citizens of Alabama, this Court has recognized that an unconsenting State is immune from federal-court suits brought by its own citizens as well as by citizens of another State.  Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1 ; Duhne v. New Jersey, 251 U. S. 311 ; Great Northern Life Ins. Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47, 51 ; *680 Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 524 .  See also Monaco v. Mississippi, 292 U. S. 313 .” The Social Security Act states what a "state plan” must provide.  At the time this suit was brought, 42 U. S. C. § 1382 (a) provided: “A State plan for aid to the aged, blind, or disabled, or for aid to the aged, blind, or disabled and medical assistance for the aged, must .... “(5) provide (A) such methods of administration ... as are found by the Secretary to be necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the plan .  .  .  ; “(8) provide that all individuals wishing to make application for aid or assistance under the plan shall have opportunity to do so, and that such aid or assistance shall be furnished with reasonable promptness to all eligible individuals; “(13) include reasonable standards, consistent with the objectives of this subchapter, for determining eligibility for and the extent of aid or assistance under the plan.” Nearly identical provisions are now found in 42 U. S. C. § 802 (a) (1970 ed., Supp. II).