**Dissenting Opinion**
 The Court went on to say that a state official seeking to enforce in the name of a State an unconstitutional act “comes into conflict with the superior authority of that Constitution, and he is in that case stripped of his official or representative character and is subjected in his person to the consequence of his individual conduct.  The State has no power to impart to him any immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of the United States.” Id., at 159-160 .  As the complaint in the instant case alleges violations by officials of Illinois of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, it seems that the case is governed by Ex parte Young so far as injunctive relief is concerned.  The main thrust of the argument is that the.  instant case asks for relief which if granted would .affect the treasury of the State.  Most welfare decisions by federal courts have a fi *681 nancial impact on the States.  Under the existing federal-state cooperative system, a state desiring to participate, submits a “state plan” to HEW for approval; once HEW approves the plan the State is locked into the cooperative scheme until it withdraws, 3 all as described in King v. Smith, <citedDecision>392 U. S. 309</citedDecision> , 316 et seq. The welfare cases coming here have involved ultimately the financial responsibility of the State to beneficiaries claiming they were deprived of federal rights.  <citedDecision>King</citedDecision> v. <citedDecision>Smith</citedDecision> required payment to children even though their mother was co-habitating with a man who could not pass muster as a *682 “parent.” Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U. S. 397 , held that under this state-federal cooperative program a State could not reduce its standard of need in conflict with the federal standard.  It is true that Rosado did not involve retroactive payments as are involved here.  But the distinction is not relevant or material because the result in every welfare case coming here is to increase or reduce the financial responsibility of the participating State.  In no case when the responsibility of the State is increased to meet the lawful demand of the beneficiary, is there any levy on state funds.  Whether the decree is prospective only or requires payments for the weeks or months wrongfully skipped over by the state officials, the nature of the impact on the state treasury is precisely the same.  We have granted relief in other welfare cases which included retroactive assistance benefits or payments.  In State Dept. of Health and Rehabilitative Services v. Zarate, 407 U. S. 918 , the sole issue presented to us 4 was whether the Eleventh Amendment barred a judgment against state officers for retroactive welfare assistance benefits or payments.