**Combined Opinion**
 The Court has long implicitly recognized the patent harshness of an equal division of damages in the face of disparate blame by applying the “major-minor” fault doctrine to find a grossly negligent party solely at fault.  12 But this escape valve, in addition to being inherently unreliable, simply replaces one unfairness with another.  That a vessel is primarily negligent does not justify its shouldering all responsibility, nor excuse the slightly negligent vessel from bearing any liability at all. See Tank Barge Hygrade v. The Gatco New Jersey, 250 F. 2d 485 , 488 (CA3).  The problem remains where it began — with the divided damages rule: “[T]he doctrine that a court should not look too jealously at the navigation of one vessel, when the faults of the other are glaring, is in the nature of a *407 sop to Cerberus.  It is no doubt better than nothing; but it is inadequate to reach the heart of the matter, and constitutes a constant temptation to courts to avoid a decision on the merits.” National Bulk Carriers v. United States, 183 F. 2d 405, 410 (CA2) (L. Hand, J., dissenting).  The divided damages rule has been said to be justified by the difficulty of determining comparative degrees of negligence when both parties are concededly guilty of contributing fault.  The Max Morris, <citedDecision>137 U. S. 1, 12</citedDecision> .  Although there is some force in this argument, it cannot justify an equal division of damages in every ease of collision based on mutual fault.  When it is impossible fairly to allocate degrees of fault, the division of damages equally between wrongdoing parties is an equitable solution.  But the rule is unnecessarily crude and inequitable in a case like this one where an allocation of disparate proportional fault has been made.  Potential problems of proof in some cases hardly require adherence to an archaic and unfair rule in all cases. Every other major maritime nation has evidently been able to apply a rule of comparative negligence without serious problems, see Mole & Wilson, A Study of Comparative Negligence, 17 Corn.  L. Q. 333, 346 (1932); In re Adams’ Petition, 125 F. Supp. 110 , 114 (SDNY), aff’d, 237 F. 2d 884 (CA2), and in our own admiralty law a rule of comparative negligence has long been applied with no untoward difficulties in personal injury actions.  See, e. g., Pope & Talbot, Inc. v. Hawn, 346 U. S. 406, 409 .