**Dissenting Opinion**
Mr. Justice Stevens, with whom Mr. Justice Stewart and Mr. Justice Rehnquist join, dissenting.  If the partial strike activity in this case were protected, or even arguably protected, by § 7 of the National Labor Relations Act, the Court’s conclusion would be supported by San Diego Unions v. Garmon, 359 U. S. 236 .  But in Automobile Workers v. Wisconsin Emp. Rel. Board, 336 U. S. 245 (Briggs-Strait on), the Court rejected the argument that comparable activity was protected by § 7.  And as I understand the Court’s holding today, it as *157 sumes that this activity remains unprotected.  1 Moreover, if such activity were prohibited, or arguably prohibited, by § 8 of the Act, the Court's conclusion would also be supported by Garmon .  But ever since NLRB v. Insurance Agents, 361 U. S. 477 , it has been clear that this activity is not even arguably prohibited.  If Congress had focused on the problems presented by partial strike activity, and had enacted special legislation dealing with this subject matter, but left the form of the activity disclosed by this record unregulated, the Court's conclusion would be supported by Teamsters Union v. Morton, <citedDecision>377 U. S. 252</citedDecision> .  But this is not such a case. Despite the numerous statements in the Court’s opinion about Congress’ intent to leave partial strike activity wholly unregulated, I have found no legislative expression of any such intent nor any evidence that Congress has scrutinized such activity.  2 *158 If this Court had previously held that the no-man’s land in which conduct is neither arguably protected nor arguably prohibited by federal law is nevertheless preempted by an unexpressed legislative intent, I would follow such a holding.  But none of the cases reviewed in the Court’s opinion so holds.  3 Ever since 1949, when Briggs-Stratton was decided, the rule has been that partial strike activity within that area may be regulated by the States.  If adherence to the rule of Briggs-Stratton would per *159 mit the States substantially to disrupt the balance Congress has struck between union and employer, I would readily join in overruling it.  But I am not persuaded that partial strike activity is so essential to the bargaining process that the States should not be free to make it illegal.