**Combined Opinion**
 App. 5-6, 9-15.  Relying on this Court's decision in United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., supra , the District Court rejected the proffered instruction in favor of the following one: "Therefore, if you find by a preponderance of the evidence that Sylvania entered into a contract, combination or conspiracy with one or more of its dealers pursuant to which Sylvania exercised dominion or control over the *41 products sold to the dealer, after having parted with title and risk to the products, you must find any effort thereafter to restrict outlets or store locations from which its dealers resold the merchandise which they had purchased from Sylvania to be a violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, regardless of the reasonableness of the location restrictions." App. 492.  In answers to special interrogatories, the jury found that Sylvania had engaged "in a contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade in violation of the antitrust laws with respect to location restrictions alone," and assessed Continental's damages at $591,505, which was trebled pursuant to 15 U. S. C. ยง 15 to produce an award of $1,774,515.  App. 498, 501.  [9] On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, sitting en banc, reversed by a divided vote.  <citedDecision>537 F. 2d 980</citedDecision> (1976).  The court acknowledged that there is language in Schwinn that could be read to support the District Court's instruction but concluded that Schwinn was distinguishable on several grounds.  Contrasting the nature of the restrictions, their competitive impact, and the market shares of the franchisers in the two cases, the court concluded that Sylvania's location restriction had less potential for competitive harm than the restrictions invalidated in Schwinn and thus should be judged under the "rule of reason" rather than the per se rule stated in Schwinn.  The court found support for its *42 position in the policies of the Sherman Act and in the decisions of other federal courts involving nonprice vertical restrictions.  [10] We granted Continental's petition for certiorari to resolve this important question of antitrust law. 429 U. S. 893 (1976).  [11] II A We turn first to Continental's contention that Sylvania's restriction on retail locations is a per se violation of ยง 1 of the Sherman Act as interpreted in Schwinn.  The restrictions at issue in Schwinn were part of a three-tier distribution system comprising, in addition to Arnold, Schwinn & Co. (Schwinn), 22 intermediate distributors and a network of franchised retailers.