**Concurrence Opinion**
 The first is that, as the majority puts it, “when interbrand competition exists, as it does among television manufacturers, it provides a significant check on the exploitation of intrabrand market power because of the ability of consumers to substitute a different brand of the same product.” Ante, at 52 n. 19.  See also ante, at 54.  6 Second is the view, argued forcefully in the economic literature cited by the majority, that the potential benefits of vertical restraints in promoting interbrand competition are particularly strong where the manufacturer imposing the restraints is seeking to enter a new market or to expand a small market share.  Ibid. 7 The majority even recognizes that Schwinn “hinted” at an exception for new entrants and failing firms from its per se rule.  Ante, at 53-54, n. 22.  In other areas of antitrust law, this Court has not hesitated to base its rules of per se illegality in part on the defendant’s market power.  Indeed, in the very case from which the majority draws its standard for per se rules, Northern Pac. R. Co. v. United States, <citedDecision>356 U. S. 1, 5</citedDecision> (1958), the *66 Court stated the reach of the per se rule against tie-ins under § 1 of the Sherman Act as extending to all defendants with “sufficient economic power with respect to the tying product to appreciably restrain free competition in the market for the tied product ...” <citedDecision>356 U. S., at 6</citedDecision> .  And the Court subsequently approved an exception to this per se rule for “infant industries” marketing a new product.  United States v. Jerrold Electronics Corp., 187 F. Supp. 545 (ED Pa. 1960), aff’d per curiam, 365 U. S. 567 (1961).  See also United States v. Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 U. S. 321, 363 (1963), where the Court held presumptively illegal a merger “which produces a firm controlling an undue percentage share of the relevant market I see no doctrinal obstacle to excluding firms with such minimal market power as Sylvania’s from the reach of the Schwinn rule.  8 I have, moreover, substantial misgivings about the approach the majority takes to overruling Schwinn.  The reason for the distinction in Schwinn between sale and nonsale transactions was not, as the majority would have it, “the Court’s effort to accommodate the perceived intrabrand harm and interbrand benefit of vertical restrictions,” ante, at 52; the reason was rather, as Judge Browning argued in dissent below, the notion in many of our cases involving vertical restraints that inde *67 pendent businessmen should have the freedom to dispose of the goods they own as they see fit.  Thus the first case cited by the Court in Schwinn for the proposition that “restraints upon alienation .