**Lead Opinion**
 This relationship, at this particular point of the marginal sea, is too close to the vital interest of the Nation in its own boundaries to allow it to be governed by any law but the 'supreme Law of the Land.’ ” 389 U. S., at 293 .  We are fortified in our conclusion that Bonelli’s equal-footing analysis was unsound by the fact that its author has likewise rejected it.  The dissenting opinion of our Brother Marshall, post, p. 382, would sustain the result reached in Bonelli but on a ground explicitly avoided in the Bonelli opinion.  The "mystery” or "puzzle” to which our Brother refers, post, at 384, turns out to be nonexistent; in rejecting Bonelli’s equal-footing analysis, we are simply refusing to be more Roman than the Romans.  The dissent’s own abandonment of Bonelli’s ratio decidendi is anything but a ringing endorsement of the rule of stare decisis.  We think that the insistence of our dissenting Brethren that “federal common law” should be applied to a determination of title in this case, albeit not for the same reason expounded in Bonelli, misapprehends the meaning and significance of the term “common law” as it is used in several of our old cases. In the generic sense of the term, the “common law” has been defined as: “ ‘the body of those principles and rules of action, relating to the government and security of persons and property, which derive their authority solely from usages and customs of immemorial antiquity, or from the judgments and decrees of the courts recognizing, affirming and enforcing such usages and customs; and, in this sense, particularly the ancient unwritten law of England.’ ” Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 92, 102 (1901) (citing Black’s Law Dictionary).  It is in this descriptive sense that the term is used in the two principal quotations relied upon in the dissenting opinion, New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662 , 717 (1836), and County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, <citedDecision>23 Wall. 46, 68</citedDecision> (1874).  In the passage from New Orleans , the Court *381 simply summarized the accepted British common-law doctrine of accretion.  In <citedDecision>Lovingston</citedDecision> , the Court affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois which had rested upon the proper rule of common law, without any indication that this rule was not the law of Illinois.  In light of the treatment of the subject in such later cases as Barney v. Keokuk, Packer v. Bird, Shively v. Bowlby , and Joy v. St. Louis , all discussed in the text, no “rule” requiring the application of “federal common law” to questions of riparian ownership may be deduced from New Orleans and <citedDecision>Lovingston</citedDecision> .  See post, at 387-388.