**Concurrence Opinion**
 Marbury *710 v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803), cited by the dissent, post, at 718, is a case in point.  But the Court’s recognition of its power to invalidate legislation not in conformity with constitutional command was essential to its judgment in Marbury .  And on numerous subsequent occasions, the Court has been required to apply the full breadth of the Marbury holding.  In Monroe , on the other hand, the Court’s rationale was broader than necessary to meet the contentions of the parties and to decide the case in a principled manner.  The language in Monroe cannot be dismissed as dicta, but we may take account of the fact that the Court simply was not confronted with the implications of holding § 1983 inapplicable to official municipal policies.  It is an appreciation of those implications that has prompted today’s re-examination of the legislative history of the 1871 measure.  In Aldinger v. Howard, <citedDecision>427 U. S. 1, 16</citedDecision> (1976), we reaffirmed Monroe , but petitioner did not contest the proposition that counties were excluded from the reach of § 1983 under Monroe , and the question before us concerned the scope of pendent-party jurisdiction with respect to a state-law claim.  Similarly, the parties in Mt. Healthy City Board of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274 (1977), did not seek a re-examination of our ruling in Monroe .  To the extent that the complaints in those cases asserted claims against the individual defendants in their personal capacity, as well as official capacity, the court would have had authority to award the relief requested.  There is no suggestion in the opinions, however, that the practices at issue were anything other than official, duly authorized policies.  Mr. Justice RehNquist’s dissent makes a strong argument that “[s]ince Monroe , municipalities have had the right to expect that they would not be held liable retroactively for their officers’ failure to predict this Court’s recognition of new constitutional rights.” Post, at 717.  But it reasonably may be assumed that most municipalities already indemnify officials sued for conduct within the scope of their authority, a policy that furthers the important interest of attracting and retaining competent officers, board members, and employees.  In any event, the possibility of a qualified immunity, as to which the Court reserves decision, may remove some of the harshness of liability for good-faith failure to predict the often uncertain course of constitutional adjudication.