**Dissenting Opinion**
 For the Clause often permits Government appeals from final judgments favorable to the accused.  See United States v. Wilson, 420 U. S. 332 (1975) (whether or not final judgment was an acquittal, Government may appeal if reversal would not ne *105 cessitate a retrial).  The purpose of the Clause, which the Court today fails sufficiently to appreciate, is to protect the accused against the agony and risks attendant upon undergoing more than one criminal trial for any single offense.  See ibid. A retrial increases the financial and emotional burden that any criminal trial represents for the accused, prolongs the period of the unresolved accusation of -wrongdoing, and enhances the risk that an innocent defendant may be convicted.  4 See Arizona v. Washington, 434 U. S. 497, 503-504 (1978); Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187-188 (1957).  Society’s “willingness to limit the Government to a single criminal proceeding to vindicate its very vital interest in enforcement of criminal laws” bespeaks society’s recognition of the gross unfairness of requiring the accused to undergo the strain and agony of more than one trial for any single offense.  United States v. Jorn, <citedDecision>400 U. S. 470, 479</citedDecision> (1971) (opinion of Harlan, J.).  Accordingly, the policies of the Double Jeopardy Clause mandate that the Government be afforded but one complete opportunity to convict an accused and that when the first proceeding terminates in a final judgment favorable to the defendant 5 any retrial be barred.  The rule as to acquittals can only be understood as simply an application of this larger principle.  Judgments of acquittal normally result from jury or bench *106 verdicts of not guilty.  In such cases, the acquittal represents the factfinder’s conclusion that, under the controlling legal principles, the evidence does not establish that the defendant can be convicted of the offense charged in the indictment.  But the judgment does not necessarily establish the criminal defendant’s lack of criminal culpability; the acquittal may result from erroneous evidentiary rulings or erroneous interpretations of governing legal principles induced by the defense.  Yet the Double Jeopardy Clause bars a second trial. In repeatedly holding that the Government may not appeal from an acquittal if a reversal would necessitate a retrial, the Court has, of course, recognized that this rule impairs to some degree the Government’s interest in enforcing its criminal laws.