**Dissenting Opinion**
 It does not automatically follow, however, that the Montana severance tax does not unduly burden or interfere with interstate commerce.  The gravamen of appellants’ complaint is that the severance tax does not satisfy the fourth prong of the Complete Auto Transit test because it is tailored to, and does, force interstate commerce to pay more than its way.  Under our established precedents, appellants are entitled to a trial on this claim.  The Court’s conclusion to the contrary rests on the premise that the relevant inquiry under the fourth prong of the Complete Auto Transit test is simply whether the measure of the tax is fixed as a percentage of the value of the coal taken.  Ante, at 626.  This interpretation emasculates the fourth prong.  No trial will ever be necessary on the issue of fair relationship so long as a State is careful to impose a proportional rather than a flat tax rate; thus, the Court’s rule is no less “mechanical” than the approach entertained in Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., <citedDecision>260 U. S. 245</citedDecision> (1922), disapproved today, ante, at 617.  10 Under the Court’s reasoning, any ad valorem tax will satisfy the fourth prong; indeed, the Court implicitly ratifies Montana’s contention that it is free to tax this coal at 100% or even 1,000% of value, should it *646 choose to do so. Tr. of Oral Arg. 21.  Likewise, the Court’s analysis indicates that Montana’s severance tax would not run afoul of the Commerce Clause even if it raised sufficient revenue to allow Montana to eliminate all other taxes upon its citizens.  11 The Court’s prior cases neither require nor support such a startling result.  12 The Court often has noted that “‘[i]t was not the purpose of the commerce clause to relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their just share of state tax burden even though it increases the cost of doing the business.’ ” Complete Auto Transit, 430 U. S., at 279 (emphasis added), quoting Western Live Stock, 303 U. S., at 254 .  See Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S., at 754 .  Accordingly, *647 interstate commerce cannot claim any exemption from a state tax that “is fairly related to the services provided by the State.” Complete Auto Transit, 430 U. S., at 279 .