**Dissenting Opinion**
 In each case, the State permitted a natural resource to be reduced to private possession, permitted an intrastate market to exist in that resource, and either barred interstate commerce entirely or granted its residents a commercial preference.  1 *964 By contrast, Nebraska so regulates ground water that it cannot be said that the State permits any “commerce,” intrastate or interstate, to exist in this natural resource.  As with almost all of the Western States, Nebraska does- not recognize an absolute ownership interest in ground water, but grants landowners only a right to use ground water on the land from which it has been extracted.  Moreover, the landowner’s right to use ground water is limited.  Nebraska landowners may not extract ground water “in excess of a reasonable and beneficial use upon the land in which he owns, especially if such use is injurious to others who have substantial rights to the waters, and if the natural underground supply is insufficient for all owners, each is entitled to a reasonable proportion of the whole.” Olson v. City of Wahoo, 124 Neb. 802, 811 , 248 N. W. 304, 308 (1933).  With the exception of municipal water systems, Nebraska forbids any transportation of ground water off the land owned or controlled by the person who has appropriated the water from its subterranean source.  <citedDecision>208 Neb. 703, 710</citedDecision> , <citedDecision>305 N. W. 2d 614, 619</citedDecision> (1981).  See App. 68-69.  Nebraska places additional restrictions on ground-water users within certain areas, such as the portion of appellants’ land situated in Nebraska, where the shortage of ground water is determined to be critical.  Water users in appellants’ district are permitted only to irrigate the acreage irrigated in 1977, or the average number of acres irrigated between 1972 and 1976, whichever is greater, and must obtain permission from the water district’s board before any *965 additional acreage may be placed under irrigation.  The amount of ground water that may be extracted is strictly limited on an acre-inch-per-irrigated-acre basis.  There are also detailed regulations as to the spacing of wells and the use and operation of flow meters.  Id., at 71-82.