**Dissenting Opinion**
 There are also detailed regulations as to the spacing of wells and the use and operation of flow meters.  Id., at 71-82.  Since Nebraska recognizes only a limited right to use ground water on land owned by the appropriator, it cannot be said that “commerce” in ground water exists as far as Nebraska is concerned.  Therefore, it cannot be said that Neb. Rev. Stat. §46-613.01 (1978) either discriminates against, or “burdens,” interstate commerce.  Section 46-613.01 is simply a regulation of the landowner’s right to use ground water extracted from lands he owns within Nebraska.  2 Unlike the Court, I cannot agree that Nebraska’s limitation upon a landowner’s right to extract water from his land situated in Nebraska for his own use on land he owns in an adjoining State runs afoul of Congress’ unexercised authority to regulate interstate commerce.  3 Similarly, in City of Altus v. Carr, <citedDecision>255 F. Supp. 828</citedDecision> (WD Tex.), summarily aff’d, 385 U. S. 35 (1966), Texas placed no restrictions upon the use or the intrastate sale of ground water.  The “rule in Texas was that an *964 owner of land could use all of the percolating water he could capture from the wells on his land for whatever beneficial purposes he needed it, on or off the land, and could likewise sell it to others for use on or off the land and outside the basin where produced, just as he could sell any other species of property.” <citedDecision>255 F. Supp., at 833, n. 8</citedDecision> .  Texas’ absolute ownership rule is an anomaly among the Western States.  See 5 R. Clark, Waters and Water Rights §441 (1972 and 1978 Supp.).  In Nebraska, as in most of the Western States, ground water is not treated as “any other species of property.” Unlike several other Western States, Nebraska does not entirely forbid ground water extracted in Nebraska to be used in other States.  See Brief for City of El Paso as Amicus Curiae 2, n. 3.  As noted by the Court, Nebraska merely places conditions on such a use of the State’s ground water.  A permit must be obtained from the Nebraska Department of Water Resources.