**Lead Opinion**
 With only a citation to Yellow Cab and no further analysis, the Court stated that the “suggestion runs counter to our past decisions that common ownership and control does not liberate corporations from the impact of the antitrust laws” and stated that this rule was “especially applicable” when defendants “hold themselves out as competitors.” 340 U. S., at 215 .  Unlike the Yellow Cab passage, this language does not pertain to corporations whose initial affiliation was itself unlawful.  In straying beyond Yellow Cab, the Kiefer-Stewart Court failed to confront the anomalies an intra-enterprise doctrine entails.  It is relevant nonetheless that, were the ease decided today, the same result probably could be justified on the ground that the subsidiaries conspired with wholesalers other than the plaintiff.  9 An intra-enterprise conspiracy doctrine thus would no longer be necessary to a finding of liability on the facts of Kiefer-Stewart.  Later cases invoking the intra-enterprise conspiracy doctrine do little more than cite Yellow Cab or Kiefer-Stewart, and in none of the cases was the doctrine necessary to the result reached.  Timken Roller Bearing Co. v. United States, <citedDecision>341 U. S. 593</citedDecision> (1951), involved restrictive horizontal agree *765 ments between an American corporation and two foreign corporations in which it owned 30 and 50 percent interests respectively.  The Timken Court cited Kiefer Stewart to show that “[t]he fact that there is common ownership or control of the contracting corporations does not liberate them from the impact of the antitrust laws.” <citedDecision>341 U. S., at 598</citedDecision> .  But the relevance of this statement is unclear.  The American defendant in Timken did not own a majority interest in either of the foreign corporate conspirators and, as the District Court found, it did not control them.  10 Moreover, as in Yellow Cab, there was evidence that the stock acquisitions were themselves designed to effectuate restrictive practices.  11 The Court’s reliance on the intra-enterprise conspiracy doctrine was in no way necessary to the result.  The same is true of Perma Life Mufflers, Inc. v. International Parts Corp., 392 U. S. 134 (1968), which involved a conspiracy among a parent corporation and three subsidiaries to impose various illegal restrictions on plaintiff franchisees.  The Court did suggest that, because the defendants “availed themselves of the privilege of doing business through separate corporations, the fact of common own *766 ership could not save them from any of the obligations that the law imposes on separate entities [citing Yellow Cab and Timken].” Id., at 141-142 .