**Combined Opinion**
 In concluding that the monetary penalty was merely a remedial civil sanction authorized by Congress to be assessed at the discretion of those administering the tax law, the Court observed that forfeiture of goods or their value and the payment of fixed or variable sums of money are sanctions that have long been recognized as enforceable by civil proceedings.  Id., at 400 .  Finally, the Mitchell Court considered the effect of the holding in Coffey upon the facts before it.  The Court distinguished Coffey on the ground that the Coffey rule did not apply where an acquittal on a criminal charge was followed by a civil action requiring a different degree of proof.  The Mitchell Court concluded that the monetary penalty imposed by the revenue laws was a civil administrative sanction; it therefore found Coffey no obstacle to the recovery of the penalty from the taxpayer.  303 U. S., at 405-406 .  Most recently, in One Lot Emerald Cut Stones v. United States, <citedDecision>409 U. S. 232</citedDecision> (1972) (per curiam), the Court held that a civil action for forfeiture of a ring and stones was not barred by the owner’s prior acquittal on charges of willfully and knowingly, with intent to defraud the United States, smuggling articles into the United States without complying with customs procedures.  Reaffirming the principles articulated in Helvering v. Mitchell, supra, the Court reasoned that the difference between the burdens of proof in the criminal and civil cases precluded the application of the doctrine of collateral estoppel.  Double jeopardy was equally inapposite, the Court continued, because the forfeiture asserted against the ring and stones was a civil, not a criminal, sanction.  The Court distinguished Coffey on the ground that acquittal on the criminal charges in <citedDecision>One Lot Emerald Cut Stones</citedDecision> did not necessarily resolve the issues in the later forfeiture action.  <citedDecision>409 U. S., at 235, n. 5</citedDecision> .  *361 In focusing on Coffey v. United States, the Court of Appeals appears to have overlooked the significance of Mitchell and <citedDecision>One Lot Emerald Cut Stones</citedDecision> .  At the very least, Mitchell signaled that an acquittal of a criminal charge does not automatically bar an action to enforce sanctions by way of forfeiture of goods or other civil penalties.  Whatever the validity of Coffey on its facts, its ambiguous reasoning seems to have been a source of confusion for some time.  As long ago as Mitchell , this Court was urged to disapprove Coffey so as to make clear that an acquittal in a criminal trial does not bar a civil action for forfeiture even though based on the identical facts.  Indeed, for nearly a century, the analytical underpinnings of Coffey have been recognized as less than adequate.  5 The time has come to clarify that neither collateral estoppel nor double jeopardy bars a civil, remedial forfeiture proceeding initiated following an acquittal on related criminal charges.  To the extent that Coffey v. United States suggests otherwise, it is hereby disapproved.  r — H HH I — I A The disposition of the instant case follows readily from the principles articulated in Mitchell and <citedDecision>One Lot Emerald Cut Stones</citedDecision> .  Mulcahey first argues that, because of his earlier criminal acquittal, the doctrine of collateral estoppel operates to preclude the § 924(d) forfeiture action.  But an acquittal on criminal charges does not prove that the defendant is innocent; it merely proves the existence of a reasonable doubt as to his guilt.  We need not be concerned whether the jury decided to acquit Mulcahey because he was entrapped into making an illegal sale or whether the jurors were not convinced of *362 his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt for other reasons.  In either case, the jury verdict in the criminal action did not negate the possibility that a preponderance of the evidence could show that Mulcahey was engaged in an unlicensed firearms business.  Mulcahey’s acquittal on charges brought under § 922(a)(1) therefore does not estop the Government from proving in a civil proceeding that the firearms should be forfeited pursuant to § 924(d).  It is clear that the difference in the relative burdens of proof in the criminal and civil actions precludes the application of the doctrine of collateral es-toppel.  Helvering v. Mitchell, 303 U. S., at 397 ; <citedDecision>One Lot Emerald Cut Stones</citedDecision> v. United States, supra, at 235.  B Mulcahey next contends that a forfeiture proceeding under § 924(d) is barred by the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment.  Unless the forfeiture sanction was intended as punishment, so that the proceeding is essentially criminal in character, the Double Jeopardy Clause is not applicable.  Helvering v. Mitchell, 303 U. S., at 398-399 .  The question, then, is whether a § 924(d) forfeiture proceeding is intended to be, or by its nature necessarily is, criminal and punitive, or civil and remedial.  Resolution of this question begins as a matter of statutory interpretation.  Id., at 399.  As the Court noted in United States v. Ward, 448 U. S. 242, 248 (1980): “Our inquiry in this regard has traditionally proceeded on two levels.  First, we have set out to determine whether Congress, in establishing the penalizing mechanism, indicated either expressly or impliedly a preference for one label or the other.  See <citedDecision>One Lot Emerald Cut Stones</citedDecision> v. United States, supra, at 236-237.  Second, where Congress has indicated an intention to establish a civil penalty, we have inquired further whether the statutory scheme was so punitive either in purpose or *363 effect as to negate that intention.  See Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U. S. 603, 617-621 (1960).” Applying the first prong of the Ward test to the facts of the instant case, we conclude that Congress designed forfeiture under § 924(d) as a remedial civil sanction.  Congress’ intent in this regard is most clearly demonstrated by the procedural mechanisms it established for enforcing forfeitures under the statute.  Section 924(d) does not prescribe the steps to be followed in effectuating a forfeiture, but rather incorporates by reference the procedures of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (Code), 26 U. S. C. §§7321-7328 .  The Code in turn provides that an action to enforce a forfeiture “shall be in the nature of a proceeding in rem in the United States District Court for the district where such seizure is made.” 26 U. S. C. § 7323 .  In contrast to the in personam nature of criminal actions, actions in rem have traditionally been viewed as civil proceedings, with jurisdiction dependent upon seizure of a physical object.