**Dissenting Opinion**
 See Fry v. United States, 421 U. S. 542 (1975).  See also Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Recl.  Assn., 452 U. S. 264, 282 (1981) (national surface mining standards necessary to insure competition among States does not undermine States’ efforts to maintain adequate intrastate standards).  On the other hand, we have also assessed the injury done to the States if forced to comply with federal Commerce Clause enactments.  See National League of Cities, 426 U. S., at 846-851 .  In addition, reliance on the Court’s difficulties in the tax immunity field is misplaced.  Although the Court has abandoned the “governmental/proprietary” distinction in this field, see New York v. United States, <citedDecision>326 U. S. 572</citedDecision> (1946), it has not taken the drastic approach of relying solely on the structure of the Federal Government to protect the States’ *564 immunity from taxation.  See Massachusetts v. United States, 485 U. S. 444 (1978).  Thus, faced with an equally difficult problem of defining constitutional boundaries of federal action directly affecting the States, we did not adopt the view many would think naive, that the Federal Government itself will protect whatever rights the States may have.  Late in its opinion, the Court suggests that after all there may be some “affirmative limits the constitutional structure might impose on federal action affecting the States under the Commerce Clause.” Ante, at 556.  The Court asserts that “[i]n the factual setting of these cases the internal safeguards of the political process have performed as intended.” Ibid. The Court does not explain the basis for this judgment.  Nor does it identify the circumstances in which the “political process” may fail and “affirmative limits” are to be imposed.  Presumably, such limits are to be determined by the Judicial Branch even though it is “unelected.” Today’s opinion, however, has rejected the balancing standard and suggests no other standard that would enable a court to determine when there has been a malfunction of the “political process.” The Court’s failure to specify the “affirmative limits” on federal power, or when and how these limits are to be determined, may well be'explained by the transparent fact that any such attempt would be subject to precisely the same objections on which it relies to overrule National League of Cities .