**Dissenting Opinion**
 The Court expresses the view that these regulations will affect the prices of beer in other States and goes on to say that such an effect constitutes “regulating” or “controlling” beer sales beyond its borders.  Ante, at 337, 342.  But this view is simply the Court’s personal forecast about the business strategies that distributors may use to set their prices in light of regulatory obligations in various States.  Certainly a distributor that considers the Connecticut affirmation law when setting its prices in Massachusetts, or offering a discount in New York, is under no legal obligation to do so. And it is quite arbitrary, and inconsistent with other Commerce Clause doctrine, to strike down Connecticut’s affirmation law because together with the laws of neighboring States it might require a brewer to plan its pricing somewhat farther in advance, ante, at 337-338, than it would prefer to do in a totally unregulated economy.  *348 “[T]he question is not whether what [the State] has done will restrict appellants’ freedom of action outside [the State] by subjecting the exercise of such freedom to financial burdens.  The mere fact that state action may have repercussions beyond state lines is of no judicial significance so long as the action is not within that domain which the Constitution forbids.” Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U. S. 53, 62 (1940).  See also Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. v. Hostetter, <citedDecision>384 U. S. 35, 43</citedDecision> (1966).  I am no more convinced by the Court’s alternative rationale, that the Connecticut statute “facially discriminates” against brewers and shippers of beer engaged in interstate commerce in favor of brewers and shippers who do business wholly within Connecticut.  Ante, at 340.  As the Court acknowledges, there are no Connecticut brewers, ante, at 327, n. 2, and the Court has not pointed to any evidence of shippers doing business in Connecticut but not in its border States.  Consequently, the Court strikes down Connecticut’s statute because it facially discriminates in favor of entities that apparently do not exist.  But cf. Amerada Hess Corp. v. Director, New Jersey Division of Taxation, 490 U. S. 66, 77-78 (1989) (absence of oil reserves in New Jersey allays concern about a discriminatory motive or effect of a state tax disallowance of a deduction related to oil production).  We do not know what actions Connecticut might take to eliminate discriminatory effects if a local brewer began business and a true danger of discrimination in favor of local business appeared.