**Concurrence Opinion**
 It is sufficient now to say that a statute belongs to that class which by its necessary operation and ‘in its relation to the offence, or its consequences, alters the situation of the accused to his disadvantage.’ United States v. Hall, 2 Wash. C. C. 366 ; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228 ; Medley, Petitioner, 134 U. S. *57 160, 171 .  Of course, a statute is not of that class unless it materially impairs the right of the accused to have the question of his guilt determined according to the law as it was when the offence was committed.” Id., at 350-351.  In Beazell v. Ohio, 269 U. S. 167 (1925), we made it clear that the question whether a particular procedural change has a sufficiently drastic impact on a defendant to be characterized as “substantial” is a matter of degree.  In that case we held that the rule applied in Kring and Thompson did not preclude the retrospective application of a rule allowing two codefendants to be tried jointly for a noncapital offense.  We summarized our earlier cases construing the Ex Post Facto Clause and explained: “The constitutional prohibition and the judicial interpretation of it rest upon the notion that laws, whatever their form, which purport to make innocent acts criminal after the event, or to aggravate an offense, are harsh and oppressive, and that the criminal quality attributable to an act, either by the legal definition of the offense or by the nature or amount of the punishment imposed for its commission, should not be altered by legislative enactment, after the fact, to the disadvantage of the accused.” 269 U. S., at 170 .  “And there may be procedural changes which operate to deny to the accused a defense available under the laws in force at the time of the commission of his offense, or which otherwise affect him in such a harsh and arbitrary manner as to fall within the constitutional prohibition.  Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221 ; Thompson v. Utah, <citedDecision>170 U. S. 343</citedDecision> .  But it is now well settled that statutory changes in the mode of trial or the rules of evidence, which do not deprive the accused of a defense and which operate only in a limited and unsubstantial manner to his disadvantage, are not prohibited.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> *58 “Just what alterations of procedure will be held to be of sufficient moment to transgress the constitutional prohibition cannot be embraced within a formula or stated in a general proposition.  The distinction is one of degree.  But the constitutional provision was intended to secure substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive legislation, see Malloy v. South Carolina, 237 U. S. 180, 183 , and not to limit the legislative control of remedies and modes of procedure which do not affect matters of substance.” Id., at 171.  h — I » — I The foregoing cases make it clear that the mere fact that this case involves a procedural change in Texas law is not sufficient to exclude it from the coverage of the Ex Post Facto Clause.  But it is equally clear that our analysis should focus on the impact of the change upon the “right belonging to [the defendant] when the offense was committed.” Thompson, <citedDecision>170 U. S., at 351</citedDecision> .  In this case, neither the defendant’s right to a fair trial nor his right to be protected against unauthorized or excessive punishment has been impaired in the slightest by the new Texas rule.  This conclusion follows immediately from an observation which is both sensible and evident from precedent: A procedural protection is likely to be substantial, when viewed from the time of the commission of the offense, only if it affects the modes of procedure by which a valid conviction or sentence may be imposed.  The claims in Kring and Thompson both satisfy this threshold test.  In Kring, the procedural change — which deprived Kring of a defense based upon an earlier trial or plea — made it easier for the State to obtain a first-degree murder charge against a defendant who had never been subject to any valid conviction for the crime in question, much less a valid conviction for first-degree murder.  In Thompson, the reduction in the size of the jury made it easier for the State to obtain a unanimous verdict *59 against a defendant who, before the verdict, likewise had not been convicted.  Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589 (1901), is, however, distinguishable from Kring and Thompson because it fails to meet the threshold test.