**Lead Opinion**
 In Beazell, supra, we said that the constitutional prohibition is addressed to laws, “whatever their form,” which make innocent acts criminal, alter the nature of the offense, or increase the punishment.  Id., at 170 .  But the prohibition which may not be evaded is the one defined by the Calder categories.  See Duncan, supra, at 382 ; Malloy, supra, at 183-184 .  The references in Duncan and Malloy to “substantial protections” and “personal rights” should not be read to adopt without explanation an undefined enlargement of the Ex Post Facto Clause.  *47 Two decisions of this Court, relied upon by respondent, do not fit into this analytical framework.  In Kring v. Missouri, <citedDecision>107 U. S. 221</citedDecision> (1883), the Court said “it is not to be supposed that the opinion in [Calder v. Bull] undertook to define, by way of exclusion, all the cases to which the constitutional provision would be applicable.” <citedDecision>Id., at 228</citedDecision> .  It defined an ex post facto law, inter alia, as one which, “ ‘in relation to the offence or its consequences, alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage.”’ <citedDecision>Id.,</citedDecision> at 228-229 (quoting United States v. Hall, 26 F. Cas. 84, 86 (No. 15,285) (D Pa. 1809)) (emphasis deleted).  And in Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343 (1898), the Court held that a change in Utah law reducing the size of juries in criminal cases from 12 persons to 8 deprived Thompson of “a substantial right involved in his liberty” and violated the Ex Post Facto Clause.  Id., at 352 .  Neither of these decisions, in our view, is consistent with the understanding of the term “ex post facto law” at the time the Constitution was adopted.  Nor has their reasoning been followed by this Court since Thompson was decided in 1898.  These cases have caused confusion in state and lower federal courts about the scope of the Ex Post Facto Clause, as exemplified by the opinions of the District Court and Court of Appeals in this case. See also Murphy v. Kentucky, 465 U. S. 1072, 1073 (1984) (White, J., dissenting from denial of certio-rari) (noting “the evident confusion among lower courts concerning the application of the Ex Post Facto Clause to changes in rules of evidence and procedure”); United States v. Kowal, 596 F. Supp. 375, 377 (Conn. 1984) (Supreme Court jurisprudence applying ex post facto prohibition to retroactive procedural changes “is not all of one piece”); L. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 638 (2d ed. 1988) (procedural changes upheld by the Court “can hardly be distinguished in any functional way from those invalidated”).  The earlier decision, <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> v. Missouri, was a capital case with a lengthy procedural history.  Kring was charged with first-degree murder, but pursuant to a plea agreement, he *48 pleaded guilty to second-degree murder.  The plea was accepted by the prosecutor and the trial court, and he was sentenced to 25 years in prison.  He appealed the judgment, however, on the ground that his plea agreement provided for a sentence of no more than 10 years.  The State Supreme Court reversed the judgment and remanded for further proceedings.  In the trial court, Kring refused to withdraw his guilty plea to second-degree murder and refused to renew his plea of not guilty to first-degree murder, insisting instead that the acceptance of his earlier plea constituted an acquittal on the greater charge.  The trial court, over Kring’s objection, directed a general plea of not guilty to be entered, and upon retrial, he was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to death.  At the time the crime was committed, Missouri law provided that a defendant’s plea of guilty to second-degree murder, if accepted by the prosecutor and the court, served as an acquittal of the charge of first-degree murder.  After the crime, but before Kring made his plea, a new Missouri Constitution abrogated that rule.  The State was thus free, as a matter of Missouri law, to retry Kring for first-degree murder after his conviction and the 25-year sentence for second-degree murder were vacated.  The Supreme Court of Missouri held that the new law did not violate the Ex Post Facto Clause, because it effected only a change in criminal procedure.  This Court reversed by a vote of 5 to 4.  As support for the view that Calder did not define an exclusive list of legislative Acts falling within the constitutional prohibition, Justice Miller’s opinion for the Court quoted a jury charge given by Justice Washington sitting in the District Court: “‘[A]n ex post facto law is one which, in its operation, makes that criminal which was not so at the time the action was performed; or which increases the punishment, or, in short, which, in relation to the offence or its consequences, alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage.’ ” <citedDecision>Kring, supra,</citedDecision> at 228-229 *49 (quoting United States v. Hall, supra, at 86 ) (emphasis in original).  Applying that test, the Court concluded that because the new Missouri Constitution denied Kring the benefit of an implied acquittal which the previous law provided, it “altered the situation to his disadvantage,” and his conviction for first-degree murder was void.  <citedDecision>Kring, supra, at 235-236</citedDecision> .  The Court’s departure from Calder’s explanation of the original understanding of the Ex Post Facto Clause was, we think, unjustified.  The language in the Hall case, heavily relied upon in <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> and repeated in other decisions thereafter, does not support a more expansive definition of ex post facto laws.  In Hall , a vessel owner was sued by the United States for forfeiture of an embargo bond obliging him to deliver certain cargo to Portland, Me. As a legal excuse, the defendant argued that a severe storm had disabled his vessel and forced him to land in Puerto Rico, where he was forced by the Puerto Rican government to sell the cargo.  In dicta, Justice Washington hypothesized that, according to the law in effect at the time Hall forfeited the cargo, an “unavoidable accident” was an affirmative defense to a charge of failing to deliver cargo.  His jury instruction then explained that a subsequent law imposing an additional requirement for the affirmative defense— that the vessel or cargo actually be lost at sea as a result of the unavoidable accident — would deprive Hall of a defense of his actions available at the time he sold the cargo and thus be an invalid ex post facto law. This analysis is consistent with the Beazell framework.  A law that abolishes an affirmative defense of justification or excuse contravenes Art. I, § 10, because it expands the scope of a criminal prohibition after the act is done.  It appears, therefore, that Justice Washington’s reference to laws “relating] to the offence or its consequences,” was simply shorthand for legal changes altering the definition of an offense or increasing a punishment.  His jury charge should not be read to mean that the Constitution prohibits retrospective *50 laws, other than those encompassed by the Calder categories, which “alte[r] the situation of a party to his disadvantage.” Nothing in the Hall case supports the broad construction of the ex post facto provision given by the Court in <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> .  It is possible to reconcile <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> with the numerous cases which have held that “procedural” changes do not result in ex post facto violations by saying that the change in Missouri law did take away a “defense” available to the defendant under the old procedure.  But this use of the word “defense” carries a meaning quite different from that which appears in the quoted language from Beazell , where the term was linked to the prohibition on alterations in “the legal definition of the offense” or “the nature or amount of the punishment imposed for its commission.” Beazell, 269 U. S., at 169-170 .  The “defense” available to Kring under earlier Missouri law was not one related to the definition of the crime, but was based on the law regulating the effect of guilty pleas.  Missouri had not changed any of the elements of the crime of murder, or the matters which might be pleaded as an excuse or justification for the conduct underlying such a charge; it had changed its law respecting the effect of a guilty plea to a lesser included offense.  The holding in <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> can only be justified if the Ex Post Facto Clause is thought to include not merely the Calder categories, but any change which “alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage.” We think such a reading of the Clause departs from the meaning of the Clause as it was understood at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, and is not supported by later cases. We accordingly overrule <citedDecision>Kring</citedDecision> .  The second case, Thompson v. Utah , must be viewed in historical context.  Thompson was initially charged with his crime — grand larceny committed by stealing a calf — in 1895, when Utah was a Territory.  He was tried by a jury of 12 persons and convicted.  A new trial was subsequently granted, however, and in the meantime Utah was admitted *51 into the Union as a State.  The Constitution of the State of Utah provided that juries in noncapital cases would consist of 8 persons, not 12, and Thompson was retried and convicted by a panel of 8.  This Court reversed the conviction.