**Lead Opinion**
 h-i 1 — 1 The Fourth Amendment protects the “right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures.” Contemporaneously with the adoption of the Fourth Amendment, the First Congress, and, later, the Second and Fourth Congresses, distinguished between the need for a warrant to search for contraband concealed in “a dwelling house or similar place” and the need for a warrant to search for contraband concealed in a movable vessel.  See Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 151 (1925).  See also Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 623-624 (1886).  In Carroll , this Court established an exception to the warrant requirement for moving vehicles, for it recognized “a necessary difference between a search of a store, dwelling house or other structure in respect of which a proper official warrant readily may be obtained, and a search of a ship, motor boat, wagon or automobile, for contraband goods, where it is not practicable to secure a warrant because the vehicle can be quickly moved out of the locality or jurisdiction in which the warrant must be sought.” 267 U. S., at 153 .  It therefore held that a warrantless search of an automobile, based upon probable cause to believe that the vehicle contained evidence of crime in the light of an exigency arising out of the likely disappearance of the vehicle, did not contravene the Warrant Clause of the Fourth Amendment.  See id., at 158-159 .  The Court refined the exigency requirement in Chambers v. Maroney, <citedDecision>399 U. S. 42</citedDecision> (1970), when it held that the existence of exigent circumstances was to be determined at the time the automobile is seized.  The car search at issue in *570 <citedDecision>Chambers</citedDecision> took place at the police station, where the vehicle was immobilized, some time after the driver had been arrested.  Given probable cause and exigent circumstances at the time the vehicle was first stopped, the Court held that the later warrantless search at the station passed constitutional muster.  The validity of the later search derived from the ruling in Carroll that an immediate search without a warrant at the moment of seizure would have been permissible.  See Chambers, <citedDecision>399 U. S., at 51</citedDecision> .  The Court reasoned in <citedDecision>Chambers</citedDecision> that the police could search later whenever they could have searched earlier, had they so chosen.  <citedDecision>Id., at 51-52</citedDecision> .  Following <citedDecision>Chambers</citedDecision> , if the police have probable cause to justify a warrantless seizure of an automobile on a public roadway, they may conduct either an immediate or a delayed search of the vehicle.  In United States v. Ross, 456 U. S. 798 , decided in 1982, we held that a warrantless search of an automobile under the CaiToll doctrine could include a search of a container or package found inside the car when such a search was supported by probable cause.  The warrantless search of Ross’ car occurred after an informant told the police that he had seen Ross complete a drug transaction using drugs stored in the trunk of his car. The police stopped the car, searched it, and discovered in the trunk a brown paper bag containing drugs.  We decided that the search of Ross’ car was not unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment: “The scope of a warrantless search based on probable cause is no narrower — and no broader — than the scope of a search authorized by a warrant supported by probable cause.” Id., at 823 .  Thus, “[i]f probable cause justifies the search of a lawfully stopped vehicle, it justifies the search of every part of the vehicle and its contents that may conceal the object of the search.”' Id., at 825 .  In Ross, therefore, we clarified the scope of the Carroll doctrine as properly including a “probing search” of compartments and containers within the automobile so long as the search is supported by probable cause.  Id., at 800.