**Lead Opinion**
 The defendant will argue that the fact that the officer first chose to search the container indicates that his probable cause extended only to the container and that Chadtvick and Sanders therefore require a warrant.  On the other hand, the fact that the officer first chose to search in the most obvious location should not restrict the propriety of the search.  The Chadwick rule, as applied in Sanders , has devolved into an anomaly such that the more likely the police are to discover drugs in a container, the less authority they have to search it.  We have noted the virtue of providing “‘“clear and unequivocal” guidelines to the law enforcement profession.’” Minnick v. Mississippi, 498 U. S. 146, 151 (1990), quoting Arizona v. Roberson, 486 U. S. 676, 682 (1988).  The Chadwick-Sanders rule is the antithesis of a “ ‘clear and unequivocal’ guideline.” Justice Stevens argues that the decisions of this Court evince a lack of confusion about the automobile exception.  See post, at 594.  The first case cited by the dissent, United States v. Place, <citedDecision>462 U. S. 696</citedDecision> (1983), however, did not involve an automobile at all. We considered in <citedDecision>Place</citedDecision> the temporary detention of luggage in an airport.  Not only was no automobile involved, but the defendant, Place, was waiting *578 at the airport to board his plane rather than preparing to leave the airport in a car. Any similarity to Sanders , in which the defendant was leaving the airport in a car, is remote at best.  <citedDecision>Place</citedDecision> had nothing to do with the automobile exception and is inapposite.  Nor does Justice Stevens’ citation of Oklahoma v. Castleberry, 471 U. S. 146 (1985), support his contention.  Cas-tleberry presented the same question about the application of the automobile exception to the search of a closed container that we face here.  In Castleberry , we affirmed by an equally divided court. That result illustrates this Court’s continued struggle with the scope of the automobile exception rather than the absence of confusion in applying it.  Justice Stevens also argues that law enforcement has not been impeded because the Court has decided 29 Fourth Amendment cases since Ross in favor of the government.  See post, at 600.  In each of these cases, the government appeared as the petitioner.