**Dissenting Opinion**
 Tamayo-Reyes has alleged a fact that, if true, would entitle him to the relief he seeks.  Tamayo-Reyes initially, and properly, challenged the vol-untariness of his plea in a petition for postconviction relief in state court. The court held a hearing, after which it found that “[p]etitioner’s plea of guilty was knowingly and voluntarily entered.” App. 51.  Yet the record of the post-conviction hearing hardly inspires confidence in the accuracy of this determination.  Tamayo-Reyes was the only witness to testify, but his attorney did not ask him whether his interpreter had translated “manslaughter” for him.  Counsel instead introduced the deposition testimony of the interpreter, who admitted that he had translated “manslaughter” only as “less than murder.” Id., at 27.  No witnesses capable of assessing the interpreter’s performance were called; the attorney instead tried to direct the court’s attention to various sections of the interpreter’s deposition and attempted to point out where the interpreter had erred.  When the prosecutor objected to this discussion on the ground that counsel was not qualified as an expert witness, his “presentation of the issue quickly disintegrated.” <citedDecision>926 F. 2d 1492, 1499</citedDecision> (CA9 1991).  The state court had no other relevant evidence before it when it determined that Tamayo-Reyes actually understood the charge to which he was pleading.  Contrary to the impression conveyed by this Court’s opinion, the question whether a federal court should defer to this sort of dubious “factfinding” in addressing a habeas corpus *14 petition is one with a long history behind it, a history that did not begin with Townsend v. Sain .  II A The availability and scope of habeas corpus have changed over the writ’s long history, but one thing has remained constant: Habeas corpus is not an appellate proceeding, but rather an original civil action in a federal court. See, e. g., Browder v. Director, Dept. of Corrections of Ill., 434 U. S. 257, 269 (1978).  It was settled over a hundred years ago that “[t]he prosecution against [a criminal defendant] is a criminal prosecution, but the writ of habeas corpus ... is not a proceeding in that prosecution.  On the contrary, it is a new suit brought by him to enforce a civil right.” Ex parte Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 556, 559-560 (1883).  Any possible doubt about this point has been removed by the statutory procedure Congress has provided for the disposition of ha-beas corpus petitions, a procedure including such nonappel-late functions as the allegation of facts, 28 U. S. C. § 2242 , the taking of depositions and the propounding of interrogatories, § 2246, the introduction of documentary evidence, § 2247, and, of course, the determination of facts at evidentiary hearings, § 2254(d).