**Dissenting Opinion**
 The Court today holds that even when the reliability of state factfinding is doubtful because crucial evidence was not presented to the state trier of fact, a habeas petitioner is ordinarily not entitled to an opportunity to prove the facts necessary to his claim.  This holding, of course, directly overrules a portion of Townsend , but more than that, I think it departs significantly from the pre-Townsend law of habeas corpus.  Even before Townsend , when a habeas petitioner’s claim was properly before a federal court, and when the accurate resolution of that claim depended on proof of facts that had been resolved against the petitioner in an unreliable state proceeding, the petitioner was entitled to his day in federal court. As Justice Holmes wrote for the Court, in a case where the state courts had rejected — under somewhat suspicious circumstances — the petitioner’s allegation that his trial had been dominated by an angry mob: “[I]t does not seem to us sufficient to allow a Judge of the United States to escape the duty of examining the facts for himself when if true as alleged they make the trial absolutely void.” Moore, 261 U. S., at 92 .  The class of petitioners eligible to present claims on habeas may have been narrower in days gone by, and the class of claims one might present may have *19 been smaller, but once the claim was properly before the court, the right to a hearing was not construed as narrowly as the Court construes it today.  B Instead of looking to the history of the right to an eviden-tiary hearing, the Court simply borrows the cause and prejudice standard from a series of our recent habeas corpus cases. Ante, at 5-8.  All but one of these cases address the question of when a habeas claim is properly before a federal court despite the petitioner’s procedural default.  See Coleman v. Thompson, supra; Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478 (1986); Reed v. Ross, 468 U. S. 1 (1984); Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107 (1982); Wainwright v. Sykes, supra; Francis v. Henderson, <citedDecision>425 U. S. 536</citedDecision> (1976).  The remaining case addresses the issue of a petitioner’s abuse of the writ.  See McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467 (1991).  These cases all concern the question whether the federal court will consider the merits of the claim, that is, whether the court has the authority to upset a judgment affirmed on direct appeal.  So far as this threshold inquiry is concerned, our respect for state procedural rules and the need to discourage abuse of the writ provide the justification for the cause and prejudice standard.  As we have said in the former context: “[T]he Great Writ imposes special costs on our federal system.  The States possess primary authority for defining and enforcing the criminal law. In criminal trials they also hold the initial responsibility for vindicating constitutional rights.