**Lead Opinion**
 Undue *315 burdens on interstate commerce may be avoided not only by a case-by-case evaluation of the actual burdens imposed by particular regulations or taxes, but also, in some situations, by the demarcation of a discrete realm of commercial activity that is free from interstate taxation.  Bellas Hess followed the latter approach and created a safe harbor for vendors “whose only connection with customers in the [taxing] State is by common carrier or the United States mail.” Under Bellas Hess, such vendors are free from state-imposed duties to collect sales and use taxes.  8 Like other bright-line tests, the Bellas Hess rule appears artificial at its edges: Whether or not a State may compel a vendor to collect a sales or use tax may turn on the presence in the taxing State of a small sales force, plant, or office.  Cf. National Geographic Society v. California Bd. of Equalization, 430 U. S. 551 (1977); Scripto, Inc. v. Carson, 362 U. S. 207 (1960).  This artificiality, however, is more than offset by the benefits of a clear rule.  Such a rule firmly establishes the boundaries of legitimate state authority to impose a duty to collect sales and use taxes and reduces litigation concerning those taxes.  This benefit is important, for as we have so frequently noted, our law in this area is something of a “quagmire” and the “application of constitutional principles to specific state statutes leaves much room for controversy and confusion and little in the way of precise guides to the States in the exercise of their indispensable power of *316 taxation.” Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, <citedDecision>358 U. S. 450, 457-458</citedDecision> (1959).  Moreover, a bright-line rule in the area of sales and use taxes also encourages settled expectations and, in doing so, fosters investment by businesses and individuals.  9 Indeed, it is not unlikely that the mail-order industry’s dramatic growth over the last quarter century is due in part to the bright-line exemption from state taxation created in Bellas Hess.  Notwithstanding the benefits of bright-line tests, we have, in some situations, decided to replace such tests with more contextual balancing inquiries.  For example, in Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corp. v. Arkansas Pub. Serv. Comm’n, 461 U. S. 375 (1983), we reconsidered a bright-line test set forth in Public Util. Comm’n of R. I.  v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83 (1927).  Attleboro distinguished between state regulation of wholesale sales of electricity, which was constitutional as an “indirect” regulation of interstate commerce, and state regulation of retail sales of electricity, which was unconstitutional as a “direct regulation” of commerce.