**Lead Opinion**
 This artificiality, however, is more than offset by the benefits of a clear rule.  Such a rule firmly establishes the boundaries of legitimate state authority to impose a duty to collect sales and use taxes and reduces litigation concerning those taxes.  This benefit is important, for as we have so frequently noted, our law in this area is something of a “quagmire” and the “application of constitutional principles to specific state statutes leaves much room for controversy and confusion and little in the way of precise guides to the States in the exercise of their indispensable power of *316 taxation.” Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, 358 U. S. 450, 457-458 (1959).  Moreover, a bright-line rule in the area of sales and use taxes also encourages settled expectations and, in doing so, fosters investment by businesses and individuals.  9 Indeed, it is not unlikely that the mail-order industry’s dramatic growth over the last quarter century is due in part to the bright-line exemption from state taxation created in Bellas Hess.  Notwithstanding the benefits of bright-line tests, we have, in some situations, decided to replace such tests with more contextual balancing inquiries.  For example, in Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corp. v. Arkansas Pub. Serv. Comm’n, <citedDecision>461 U. S. 375</citedDecision> (1983), we reconsidered a bright-line test set forth in Public Util. Comm’n of R. I.  v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83 (1927).  Attleboro distinguished between state regulation of wholesale sales of electricity, which was constitutional as an “indirect” regulation of interstate commerce, and state regulation of retail sales of electricity, which was unconstitutional as a “direct regulation” of commerce.  In Arkansas Electric, we considered whether to *317 “follow the mechanical test set out in Attleboro, or the balance-of-interests test applied in our Commerce Clause cases.” <citedDecision>461 U. S., at 390-391</citedDecision> .  We first observed that “the principle of stare decisis counsels us, here as elsewhere, not lightly to set aside specific guidance of the sort we find in Attleboro.” Id., at 391.  In deciding to reject the Attleboro analysis, we were influenced by the fact that the “mechanical test” was “anachronistic,” that the Court had rarely relied on the test, and that we could “see no strong reliance interests” that would be upset by the rejection of that test.  <citedDecision>461 U. S., at 391-392</citedDecision> .  None of those factors obtains in this case. First, the Attleboro rule was “anachronistic” because it relied on formal distinctions between “direct” and “indirect” regulation (and on the regulatory counterparts of our Freeman line of cases); as discussed above, Bellas Hess turned on a different logic and thus remained sound after the Court repudiated an analogous distinction in Complete Auto. Second, unlike the Attleboro rule, we have, in our decisions, frequently relied on the Bellas Hess rule in the last 26 years, see supra, at 311, and we have never intimated in our review of sales or use taxes that Bellas Hess was unsound.  Finally, again unlike the Attleboro rule, the Bellas Hess rule has engendered substantial reliance and has become part of the basic framework of a sizable industry.  The “interest in stability and orderly development of the law” that undergirds the doctrine of stare decisis, see Runyon v. McCrary, 427 U. S. 160, 190-191 (1976) (Stevens, J., concurring), therefore counsels adherence to settled precedent.  In sum, although in our cases subsequent to Bellas Hess and concerning other types of taxes we have not adopted a similar bright-line, physical-presence requirement, our reasoning in those cases does not compel that we now reject the rule that Bellas Hess established in the area of sales and use taxes.  To the contrary, the continuing value of a bright-line rule in this area and the doctrine and principles of stare deci-sis indicate that the Bellas Hess rule remains good law. For *318 these reasons, we disagree with the North Dakota Supreme Court’s conclusion that the time has come to renounce the bright-line test of Bellas Hess.  This aspect of our decision is made easier by the fact that the underlying issue is not only one that Congress may be better qualified to resolve, 10 but also one that Congress has the ultimate power to resolve.