**Lead Opinion**
 See id., at 329-330; see also Pennhurst, 465 U. S., at 98 (“In short, the principle of sovereign immunity is a constitutional limitation on the federal judicial power established in Art. Ill”); Ex parte New York, 256 U. S., at 497 (“[T]he entire judicial power granted by the Constitution does not embrace authority to entertain a suit brought by private parties against a State without consent given .  .  .”).  It is true that we have not had occasion previously to apply established Eleventh Amendment principles to the question whether Congress has the power to abrogate state sovereign immunity (save in Union Gas).  But consideration of that question must proceed with fidelity to this century-old doctrine.  The dissent, to the contrary, disregards our case law in favor of a theory cobbled together from law review articles and its own version of historical events.  The dissent cites not a single decision since Hans (other than Union Gas) that supports its view of state sovereign immunity, instead relying upon the now-discredited decision in Chisholm v. Georgia, <citedDecision>2 Dall. 419</citedDecision> (1793).  See, e. g., post, at 152, n. 47.  Its undocumented and highly speculative extralegal explanation of *69 the decision in Hans is a disservice to the Court’s traditional method of adjudication.  See post, at 120-123.  The dissent mischaracterizes the Hans opinion.  That decision found its roots not solely in the common law of England, but in the much more fundamental “ ‘jurisprudence in all civilized nations.’” Hans, 134 U. S., at 17 , quoting Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529 (1858); see also The Federalist No. 81, p. 487 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton) (sovereign immunity “is the general sense and the general practice of mankind”).  The dissent’s proposition that the common law of England, where adopted by the States, was open to change by the Legislature is wholly unexceptionable and largely beside the point: that common law provided the substantive rules of law rather than jurisdiction.  Cf. Monaco, supra, at 323 (state sovereign immunity, like the requirement that there be a “justiciable” controversy, is a constitutionally grounded limit on federal jurisdiction).  It also is noteworthy that the principle of state sovereign immunity stands distinct from other principles of the common law in that only the former prompted a specific constitutional amendment.  Hans — with a much closer vantage point than the dissent — recognized that the decision in <citedDecision>Chisholm</citedDecision> was contrary to the well-understood meaning of the Constitution.  The dissent’s conclusion that the decision in <citedDecision>Chisholm</citedDecision> was “reasonable,” post, at 106, certainly would have struck the Framers of the Eleventh Amendment as quite odd: That decision created “such a shock of surprise that the Eleventh Amendment was at once proposed and adopted.” Monaco, supra, at 325 .  The dissent’s lengthy analysis of the text of the Eleventh Amendment is directed at a straw man — we long have recognized that blind reliance upon the text of the Eleventh Amendment is “ ‘to strain the Constitution and the law to a construction never imagined or dreamed of.’ ” Monaco, supra, at 326 , quoting Hans, supra, at 15 .  The text dealt in terms only with the problem presented by the decision in <citedDecision>Chisholm</citedDecision> ; in light of the fact that the federal courts did not *70 have federal-question jurisdiction at the time the Amendment was passed (and would not have it until 1875), it seems unlikely that much thought was given to the prospect of federal-question jurisdiction over the States.  That same consideration causes the dissent’s criticism of the views of Marshall, Madison, and Hamilton to ring hollow.  The dissent cites statements made by those three influential Framers, the most natural reading of which would preclude all federal jurisdiction over an unconsenting State.  12 Struggling against this reading, however, the dissent finds significant the absence of any contention that sovereign immunity would affect the new federal-question jurisdiction.  Post, at 142-150.  But the lack of any statute vesting general federal-question jurisdiction in the federal courts until much later makes the dissent’s demand for greater specificity about a then-dormant jurisdiction overly exacting.  13 *71 In putting forward a new theory of state sovereign immunity, the dissent develops its own vision of the political system created by the Framers, concluding with the statement that “[t]he Framers’ principal objectives in rejecting English theories of unitary sovereignty... would have been impeded if a new concept of sovereign immunity had taken its place in federal-question cases, and would have been substantially thwarted if that new immunity had been held untouchable by any congressional effort to abrogate it.” 14 Post, at 157.