**Dissenting Opinion**
 While Article III leaves it to Congress to establish the lower federal courts, and to make exceptions to the Supreme Court’s appellate jurisdiction, it specifically mandates that there be a Supreme Court and that it shall be vested with original jurisdiction over those actions in which “a State shall be Party.” Art. Ill, § 2.  In light of that language, the Chisholm majority’s conclusion that the Supreme Court had a constitutional obligation to take jurisdiction of all suits against States was not implausible.  It should be remembered that at the time of Chisholm, there was a general fear of what Justice Iredell termed the “innovating spirit” of the Federal Judiciary.  See, e. g., 3 A. Beveridge, The Life of John Marshall 19-30 (1919) (discussing the consternation that the federal courts’ creation of common-law felonies engendered).  Thus, there is good reason to believe that the reaction to Chisholm reflected the popular hostility to the Federal Judiciary more than any desire to restrain the National Legislature.  Of course, even if the Eleventh Amendment applies to federal-question cases brought by a citizen of another State, its express terms pose no bar to a federal court assuming jurisdiction in a federal-question case brought by an in-state plaintiff pursuant to Congress’ express authorization.  As that is precisely the posture of the suit before us, and as it was also precisely the posture of the suit at issue in Pennsylvania v. Union Gas, there is no need to decide here whether Congress would be barred from authorizing out-of-state plaintiffs to enforce federal rights against States in federal court. In fact, Justice Brennan left open that question in his dissent in Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, <citedDecision>473 U. S. 234, 288, n. 41</citedDecision> (1985).  “When the Court is prepared to embark on a defensible interpretation of the Eleventh Amendment consistent with its history and purposes, the question whether the Amendment bars federal-question or admiralty suits by a noncitizen or alien against a State would be open.” <citedDecision>Ibid.</citedDecision> Under the “plain text” of the Eleventh Amendment, I note that there would appear to be no more basis for the conclusion that States may consent to federal-court jurisdiction in actions brought by out-of-state or foreign citizens than there would be for the view that States should be permitted to consent to the jurisdiction of a federal court in a case that poses no federal question.  See, e. g., Owen Equipment & Erection Co. v. *83 Kroger, 437 U. S. 365, 377, n. 21 (1978); Sosna v. Iowa, 419 U. S. 393, 398 (1975); California v. LaRue, 409 U. S. 109, 112-113, n. 3 (1972); American Fire & Casualty Co. v. Finn, 341 U. S. 6, 17-18 , and n. 17 (1951); Mitchell v. Maurer, 293 U. S. 237, 244 (1934); Jackson v. Ashton, 8 Pet. 148, 149 (1834).  We have, however, construed the Amendment, despite its text, to apply only to unconsenting States.  See, e. g., Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 447 (1883).  In so doing, we of course left it for Congress to determine whether federal courts should entertain any claim against a State in federal court. A departure from the text to expand the class of plaintiffs to whom the Eleventh Amendment’s bar applies would, however, limit Congress’ authority to exercise its considered judgment as to the propriety of federal-court jurisdiction.  The absence of a textual warrant for imposing such a broad limitation on the legislative branch counsels against this Court extratextually imposing one.  In his dissent in Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., 491 U. S., at 36-37 , Justice Scalia contended that the existence of the Judiciary Act of 1875 at the time of Hans requires one to accept the “gossamer distinction between cases in which Congress has assertedly sought to eliminate state sovereign immunity pursuant to its powers to create and organize courts, and eases in which it has assertedly sought to do so pursuant to some of its other powers,” in order to conclude that, in spite of Hans , Congress may authorize federal courts to hear a suit against an unconsenting State.