**Dissenting Opinion**
 In sum, if a line is to be drawn short of barring all state aid to religious schools for teaching standard subjects, the Aguilar-Ball line was a sensible one capable of principled adherence.  It is no less sound, and no less necessary, today.  II The Court today ignores this doctrine and claims that recent cases rejected the elemental assumptions underlying Aguilar and much of Ball .  But the Court errs.  Its holding *248 that Aguilar and the portion of Ball addressing the Shared Time program are “no longer good law,” ante, at 235, rests on mistaken reading.  A Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School Dist., 509 U. S., at 13-14 , held that the Establishment Clause does not prevent a school district from providing a sign-language interpreter to a deaf student enrolled in a sectarian school.  The Court today relies solely on Zobrest to support its contention that we have “abandoned the presumption erected in Meek [v. Pittenger, <citedDecision>421 U. S. 349</citedDecision> (1975),] and Ball that the placement of public employees on parochial school grounds inevitably results in the impermissible effect of state-sponsored indoctrination or constitutes a symbolic union between government and religion.” Ante, at 223.  Zobrest , however, is no such sanction for overruling Aguilar or any portion of Ball .  In Zobrest , the Court did indeed recognize that the Establishment Clause lays down no absolute bar to placing public employees in a sectarian school, 509 U. S., at 13 , and n. 10, but the rejection of such a per se rule was hinged expressly on the nature of the employee’s job, sign-language interpretation (or signing) and the circumscribed role of the signer.  On this point (and without reference to the facts that the benefited student had received the same aid before enrolling in the religious school and the employee was to be assigned to the student, not to the school) the Court explained itself this way: “[T]he task of a sign-language interpreter seems to us quite different from that of a teacher or guidance counselor.  .  .  .