**Lead Opinion**
 See Helvering, supra, at 402 ; United States v. Spector, 343 U. S. 169, 178 (1952) (Jackson, J., dissenting) (“Administrative determinations of liability to deportation have been sustained as constitutional only by considering them to be-exclusively civil in nature, with no criminal consequences or connotations”); Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228, 235 (1896) (holding that quintessential criminal punishments may be imposed only “by a judicial trial”).  *104 Turning to the second stage of the Ward test, we find-that there is little evidence, much less the clearest proof that we require, suggesting that either OCC money penalties or debarment sanctions are “so punitive in form and effect as to render them criminal despite Congress’ intent to the contrary.” Ursery, supra, at 290 .  First, neither money penalties nor debarment has historically been viewed as punishment.  We have long recognized that “revocation of a privilege voluntarily granted,” such as a debarment, “is characteristically free of the punitive criminal element.” Helvering, 303 U. S., at 399 , and n. 2.  Similarly, “the payment of fixed or variable sums of money [is a] sanction which ha[s] been recognized as enforeible by civil proceedings since the original revenue law of 1789.” Id., at 400 .  Second, the sanctions imposed not an tive disability or restraint,” as that term is normally understood.  While petitioners have been prohibited from further participating in the banking industry, this is “certainly nothing approaching the 'infamous punishment’ of imprisonment.” Flemming v. Nestor, <citedDecision>363 U. S. 603, 617</citedDecision> (1960).  Third, neither sanction comes into play “only” on a finding of scienter.  The provisions under which the money penalties were imposed, 12 U. S. C. §§ 93 (b) and 504, allow for the assessment of a penalty against any person “who violates” any of the underlying banking statutes, without regard to the violator’s state of mind.  “Good faith” is considered by OCC in determining the amount of the penalty to be imposed, § 93(b)(2), but a penalty ean be imposed even in the absence of bad faith.  The fact that petitioners’ “good faith” was considered in determining the amount of the penalty to be imposed in this case is irrelevant, as we look only'to “the statute on its face” to determine whether a penalty is criminal in nature.  Kennedy, 372 U. S., at 169 .  Similarly, while debarment may be imposed for a “willful” disregard “for the safety or soundness of [an] insured depository institution,” *105 willfulness is not a prerequisite to debarment; it is sufficient that the disregard for the safety and soundness of the institution was “continuing."