**Lead Opinion**
 Justice Breyer’s second case, Welch , overruled Parden in part, as we discuss above, and we think it quite impossible to believe that the following statement in the opinion did not “questio[n] the holding of Parden that the Court today discards,’"'post, at 698: “We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question, that the authority of Congress to subject uneonsenting States to suit in federal court is not confined to §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.” 483 U. S., at 475.  Calling what a prior case has flatly decided a “question” in need of “deciding,” and (lest there be any doubt on the point) making it clear that we “intimatfe] no view” as to whether the answer given by that prior ease was correct, surely was handwriting on the wall which even an inept cryptologist would recognize as spelling out the caption of today’s opinion.  As for Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44 (1996), we explain elsewhere, see infra, at 682-684, how that case was logically and practically inconsistent with Parden , even though it did not expressly overrule it.  Justice Breyer realizes this well enough, or else his call for an overruling of that case, which occupies almost half of his dissent, see post, at 699-705, would be supremely irrelevant to the matter before us.  In an attempt to cast doubt on our characterization of Parden as a groundbreaking case, Justice Beeyer points to three earlier decisions which allegedly demonstrate that Parden worked no major change.  These cases, however, have only the most tenuous relation to Parderis actual holding — as one might suspect from the dissent’s soft-pedaled description of them as “roughly comparable” and involving (in quotation marks) ‘“waivers.”’ Post, at 696.  The first two, United, States v. California, 297 U. S. 175 (1936), and California v. Taylor, <citedDecision>353 U. S. 553</citedDecision> (1957), involved neither state immunity from suit nor waiver, but the entirely different question whether substantive provisions of Commerce Clause legislation applied to the States.  The former concerned a suit brought against a State by ike United States (a situation in which state sovereign immunity does not exist, see United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621 (1892)), and the latter expressly acknowledged that “the Eleventh Amendment” was “not before us,” <citedDecision>353 U. S., at 568, n. 16</citedDecision> .  The last case, Gardner v. New Jersey, 329 U. S. 565 (1947), which held that a bankruptcy court can entertain a trustee’s objections to a claim filed by a State, stands for the unremarkable proposition that a State waives its sovereign immunity by voluntarily invoking the jurisdiction of the federal courts.  See supra, at 675-676.  In sum, none of these cases laid any foundation for Parden— whose author was quite correct in acknowledging that it “presented a question of first impression,” Employees of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., 411 U. S. 279, 299 (1973) (Brennan, J., dissenting).  As for the suggestion of Justice Beeyer that we limit state sovereign immunity to noncommercial state activities because Congress has so limited foreign sovereign immunity, in accord with the “modern trend,” see post, at 699 (dissenting opinion) (citing the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (FSIA), 28 U. S. C. 11605(a)(2)), see also Justice Stevens’s dissent, post, at 692: This proposal ignores the fact that state sovereign immunity, unlike foreign sovereign immunity, is a constitutional doctrine that is meant to be both immutable by Congress and resistant to trends.  The text of the Eleventh Amendment, of course, makes no distinction between commercial and noncommercial state activities — and so if we were to combine Justice Beeyer’s literalistic interpretation of that Amendment with his affection for FSIA, we would have a “commercial activities” exception for all suits against States except those commenced in federal court by citizens of another State, a disposition that hardly “makes sense,” post, at 699.  Justice Breyer purports to “accept this Court’s pre-Seminole Tribe sovereign immunity decisions,” post, at 699 (dissenting opinion), but by that he could not mean Hans , but rather only the distorted view of Hans that prevailed briefly between Farden and Seminole Tribe.