**Concurrence In Part Opinion**
Justice Scalia, concurring in part and dissenting in part.  I agree with the Court that extending the Social Security tax to sitting Article III judges in 1984 violated Article Ill’s Compensation Clause.  I part paths with the Court on the issue of extending the Medicare tax to federal judges in 1983, which I think was also unconstitutional.  1 *582 I As an initial matter, I think the Court is right in concluding that Evans v. Gore, 253 U.S. 245 (1920) — holding that new taxes of general applicability cannot be applied to sitting Article III judges — is no longer good law, and should be overruled.  We went out of our way in O’Malley v. Woodrough, 307 U. S. 277, 280-281 (1939), to catalog criticism of Evans , and subsequently recognized, in United States v. Will, <citedDecision>449 U.S. 200, 227</citedDecision> , and n. 31 (1980), that O’Malley had “undermine[d] the reasoning of Evans.” The Court’s decision today simply recognizes what should be obvious: that Evans has not only been undermined, but has in fact collapsed.  II My disagreement with the Court arises from its focus upon the issue of discrimination, which turns out to be dispositive with respect to the Medicare tax. The Court holds “that the Compensation Clause does not forbid Congress to enact a law imposing a nondiscriminatory tax .  .  .  upon judges, whether those judges were appointed before or after the tax law in question was enacted or took effect.” Ante, at 571.  Since “the Medicare tax is just such a nondiscriminatory tax,” the Court concludes that “application of [that] tax law to federal judges is [ejonstitutional.” Ante, at 572.  But we are dealing here with a “Compensation Clause,” not a “Discrimination Clause.” See U. S. Const., Art. Ill, § 1 (“The Judges ... shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office”).  As we have said, “the Constitution makes no exceptions for 'nondiscriminatory' reductions” in judicial compensation, <citedDecision>Will, supra, at 226</citedDecision> .  A reduction in compensation is a reduction in compensation, even if all federal employees are subjected to the same cut.  The discrimination criterion that the Court uses would make sense if the only purpose of the Compensation Clause were *583 to prevent invidious (and possibly coercive) action against judges.  But as the Court acknowledges, the Clause “'promoters] the public weal’ ... by helping to induce 'learned’ men and women to ‘quit the lucrative pursuits’ of the private sector,” ante, at 568 (quoting Evans, supra, at 248 ; 1 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law *294).  That inducement would not exist if Congress could cut judicial salaries so long as it did not do so diseriminatorily.  What the question comes down to, then, is (1) whether exemption from a certain tax can constitute part of a judge’s “compensation,” and (2) if so, whether exemption from the Medicare tax was part of the judges’ compensation here.  The answer to the more general question seems to me obviously yes.  Surely the term “compensation” refers to the entire “package” of benefits — not just cash, but retirement benefits, medical care, and exemption from tarnation if that is part of the employment package.  It is simply unreasonable to think that “$150,000 a year tax-free” (if that was the bargain struck) is not higher compensation than “$150,000 a year subject to taxes.” Ask the employees of the World Bank. The more difficult question — though far from an insoluble one — is when an exemption from tax constitutes compensation.  In most eases, the presence or absence of taxation upon wages, like the presence or absence of many other factors within the control of government — inflation, for example, or the rates charged by government-owned utilities, or import duties that increase consumer prices — affects the value of compensation, but is not an element of compensation itself.  The Framers had this distinction well in mind.  Hamilton, for example, wrote that as a result of “the fluctuations in the value of money,” “[i]t was ... necessary to leave it to the discretion of the legislature to vary its provisions” for judicial compensation.  The Federalist No. 79, p. 473 (C. Bossiter ed. 1961); see also <citedDecision>Will, supra, at 227</citedDecision> (the Constitution “placed faith in the integrity and sound judgment of the elected representatives to enact increases” in judicial sala *584 ries to account for inflation).  Since Hamilton thought that the Compensation Clause “put it out of the power of [Congress] to change the condition of the individual [judge] for the worse,” The Federalist No. 79, at 473, he obviously believed that inflation does not diminish compensation as that term is used in the Constitution.  This distinction between Government action affecting compensation and Government action affecting the value of compensation was the basis for our statement in O’Malley, supra, at 282, that “[t]o subject [judges] to a general tax is merely to recognize that judges are also citizens, and that their particular function in government does not generate an immunity from sharing with their fellow citizens the material burden of the government .  .  .  .” I agree with the Court, therefore, that Evans was wrongly decided — not, however, because in Evans there was no discrimination, but because in Evans the universal application of the tax demonstrated that the Government was not reducing the compensation of its judges but was acting as sovereign rather than employer, imposing a general tax. But just as it is clear that a federal employee’s sharing of a tax-free status that all citizens enjoy is not compensation (and elimination of that tax-free status not a reduction in compensation), so also it is clear that a tax-free status conditioned on federal employment is compensation, and its elimination a reduction.  The Court apparently acknowledges that if a tax is imposed on the basis of federal employment (an income tax, for example, payable only by federal judges) it would constitute a reduction in compensation.