**Dissenting Opinion**
 And third, although the Court notes that in other treaties the United States sometimes expressly mentioned cessions of usufructuary rights, there was no need to do so in this ease, because the settled expectation of the United States was that the 1850 Executive Order had terminated the hunting rights of the Chippewa.  Thus, rather than applying the plain and unequivocal language of the 1855 Treaty, the Court holds that “all” does not in fact mean “all.” *219 IV Finally, I note my disagreement with the Court’s treatment of the equal footing doctrine, and its apparent overruling stib silentio of a precedent of 103 years’ vintage.  In Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504 (1896), we held that a Treaty granting the Indians “the right to hunt on the unoccupied lands of the United States, so long as game may be found thereon, and so long as peace subsists among the whites and the Indians on the borders of the hunting districts,” did not survive the admission of Wyoming to the Union since the treaty right was “temporary and precarious.” Id., at 515 .  But the Court, in a feat of jurisprudential legerdemain, effectively overrules Race Horse sub silentio.  First, the Court notes that Congress may only abrogate Indian treaty rights if it clearly expresses its intent to do so. Next, it asserts that Indian hunting rights are not irreconcilable with state sovereignty, and determines that “because treaty rights are reconcilable with state sovereignty over natural resources, statehood by itself is insufficient to extinguish Indian treaty rights to hunt, fish, and gather on land within state boundaries.” Ante, at 205.  And finally, the Court hints that Race Horse rested on an incorrect premise — that Indian rights were inconsistent with state sovereignty.  so, bait-and-switch effectively overrules Race Horse , a ease which we reaffirmed as recently as 1985 in Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife v. Klamath Tribe, <citedDecision>473 U. S. 753</citedDecision> (1985).  Race Horse held merely that treaty rights which were only “temporary and precarious,” as opposed to those which were “of such a nature as to imply their perpetuity,” do not survive statehood.  3 163 U. S., *220 at 515 .  Here, the hunting privileges were clearly, like those invalidated in Race Horse , temporary and precarious: The privilege was only guaranteed “during the pleasure of the President”; the legally enforceable annuity payments themselves were to terminate after 20 years; and the Indians were on actual notice that the President might end the rights in the future, App. 78 (1887 Journal of Treaty Negotiations).  Perhaps the strongest of the treaty rights is presented unwittingly by the Court in its repeated (and correct) characterizations of the rights as “usufructuary.” As noted supra, at 218, usufructuary rights are by definition “of limited duration.” Black’s Law Dictionary, supra, at 1544.  Thus, even if the Executive Order is invalid; and even if the 1855 Treaty did not cover the usu-fructuary rights: Under Race Horse , the temporary and precarious treaty privileges were eliminated by the admission of Minnesota to the Union on an equal footing in 1858.  Today the Court appears to invalidate (or at least substantially limit) Race Horse , without offering any principled reason to do so. V The Court today invalidates for no principled reason a 149-year-old Executive Order, ignores the plain meaning of a 144-year-old treaty provision, and overrules sub silentio a 103-year-old precedent of this Court. I dissent.