**Dissenting Opinion**
 Then, using our canons of construction that ambiguities in treaties are often resolved in favor of the Indians, it concludes that the Treaty did not apply to the hunting rights.  I think guage of the Treaty is so broad as to encompass “all” interests in land possessed or claimed by the Indians.  Second, while it is important to the Court that the Treaty “is devoid of any language expressly mentioning — much less abrogating — usufructuary rights,” ibid., the definition of “usufructu-ary rights” explains further why this is so. Usufructuary rights are “a real right of limited duration on the property of another.” See Black's Law Dictionary 1544 (6th ed. 1990).  It seems to me that such a right would fall clearly under the sweeping language of the Treaty under any reasonable interpretation, and that this is not a case where “even learned lawyers' of the day would probably have offered differing interpretations of the [treaty language].” Cf. Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel Assn., 443 U. S. 658, 677 (1979).  And third, although the Court notes that in other treaties the United States sometimes expressly mentioned cessions of usufructuary rights, there was no need to do so in this ease, because the settled expectation of the United States was that the 1850 Executive Order had terminated the hunting rights of the Chippewa.  Thus, rather than applying the plain and unequivocal language of the 1855 Treaty, the Court holds that “all” does not in fact mean “all.” *219 IV Finally, I note my disagreement with the Court’s treatment of the equal footing doctrine, and its apparent overruling stib silentio of a precedent of 103 years’ vintage.  In Ward v. Race Horse, <citedDecision>163 U. S. 504</citedDecision> (1896), we held that a Treaty granting the Indians “the right to hunt on the unoccupied lands of the United States, so long as game may be found thereon, and so long as peace subsists among the whites and the Indians on the borders of the hunting districts,” did not survive the admission of Wyoming to the Union since the treaty right was “temporary and precarious.” <citedDecision>Id., at 515</citedDecision> .  But the Court, in a feat of jurisprudential legerdemain, effectively overrules Race Horse sub silentio.  First, the Court notes that Congress may only abrogate Indian treaty rights if it clearly expresses its intent to do so. Next, it asserts that Indian hunting rights are not irreconcilable with state sovereignty, and determines that “because treaty rights are reconcilable with state sovereignty over natural resources, statehood by itself is insufficient to extinguish Indian treaty rights to hunt, fish, and gather on land within state boundaries.” Ante, at 205.  And finally, the Court hints that <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> rested on an incorrect premise — that Indian rights were inconsistent with state sovereignty.  so, bait-and-switch effectively overrules <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> , a ease which we reaffirmed as recently as 1985 in Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife v. Klamath Tribe, 473 U. S. 753 (1985).  <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> held merely that treaty rights which were only “temporary and precarious,” as opposed to those which were “of such a nature as to imply their perpetuity,” do not survive statehood.  3 <citedDecision>163 U. S., *220at 515</citedDecision> .  Here, the hunting privileges were clearly, like those invalidated in <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> , temporary and precarious: The privilege was only guaranteed “during the pleasure of the President”; the legally enforceable annuity payments themselves were to terminate after 20 years; and the Indians were on actual notice that the President might end the rights in the future, App. 78 (1887 Journal of Treaty Negotiations).  Perhaps the strongest of the treaty rights is presented unwittingly by the Court in its repeated (and correct) characterizations of the rights as “usufructuary.” As noted supra, at 218, usufructuary rights are by definition “of limited duration.” Black’s Law Dictionary, supra, at 1544.  Thus, even if the Executive Order is invalid; and even if the 1855 Treaty did not cover the usu-fructuary rights: Under <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> , the temporary and precarious treaty privileges were eliminated by the admission of Minnesota to the Union on an equal footing in 1858.  Today the Court appears to invalidate (or at least substantially limit) <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> , without offering any principled reason to do so. V The Court today invalidates for no principled reason a 149-year-old Executive Order, ignores the plain meaning of a 144-year-old treaty provision, and overrules sub silentio a 103-year-old precedent of this Court. I dissent.  The Court’s assumption that “any general presumption about the legality of executive action runs into the principle that treaty ambiguities are to be resolved in favor of the Indians,” ante, at 194, n. 5, illogically con-fiases the difference between executive authority and a principle of treaty construction.  The principle of Winters v. United States, 207 U. S. 564, 567-577 (1908), and County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 502 U. S. 251, 269 (1992), that ambiguities in treaties are to be resolved in favor of the Indians, is only relevant to determining the intent of the parties to a treaty (that is the United States and the Indian tribe), and stems from the idea that in determining the intent of the parties, Indian tribes should be given the benefit of the doubt as against the United States in cases of ambiguous treaty provisions because the United States was presumptively a more sophisticated bargainer.  See Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel Assn., 443 U. S. 658, 675-676 (1979).  But the determination of whether the President has power to enforce his revocation by removal is irrelevant to the intent of the parties to the treaty (the United States and the Chippewa in this case) and presents instead an issue of separation of powers (between the President and the Congress).  One notices the irony that where the President chose to explicitly eliminate the 1887 Treaty rights, the Court finds this specificity subsumed in the 'Removal order,” and invalidates it as well.  The Court maintains that this reading of <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> is overbroad and would render any right created by operation of federal law “temporary and precarious.” Ante, at206.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The outer limit of what constitutes a “temporary and precarious” right is not before the Court (nor, since <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> is apparently overruled, will it ever *220 be), but the hunting privileges granted in <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> and by the 1837 Treaty in this case reveal themselves to be "temporary and precarious” by their plain text: The privilege in <citedDecision>Race Horse</citedDecision> ended upon occupation of the hunting districts or the outbreak of hostilities, while the privilege in this case lasted only during the pleasure of the President.  Both rights were temporary and precarious, as neither was guaranteed, either expressly or impliedly, in perpetuity.