**Dissenting Opinion**
 3 163 U. S., *220 at 515 .  Here, the hunting privileges were clearly, like those invalidated in Race Horse , temporary and precarious: The privilege was only guaranteed “during the pleasure of the President”; the legally enforceable annuity payments themselves were to terminate after 20 years; and the Indians were on actual notice that the President might end the rights in the future, App. 78 (1887 Journal of Treaty Negotiations).  Perhaps the strongest of the treaty rights is presented unwittingly by the Court in its repeated (and correct) characterizations of the rights as “usufructuary.” As noted supra, at 218, usufructuary rights are by definition “of limited duration.” Black’s Law Dictionary, supra, at 1544.  Thus, even if the Executive Order is invalid; and even if the 1855 Treaty did not cover the usu-fructuary rights: Under Race Horse , the temporary and precarious treaty privileges were eliminated by the admission of Minnesota to the Union on an equal footing in 1858.  Today the Court appears to invalidate (or at least substantially limit) Race Horse , without offering any principled reason to do so. V The Court today invalidates for no principled reason a 149-year-old Executive Order, ignores the plain meaning of a 144-year-old treaty provision, and overrules sub silentio a 103-year-old precedent of this Court. I dissent.  The Court’s assumption that “any general presumption about the legality of executive action runs into the principle that treaty ambiguities are to be resolved in favor of the Indians,” ante, at 194, n. 5, illogically con-fiases the difference between executive authority and a principle of treaty construction.  The principle of Winters v. United States, <citedDecision>207 U. S. 564, 567-577</citedDecision> (1908), and County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 502 U. S. 251, 269 (1992), that ambiguities in treaties are to be resolved in favor of the Indians, is only relevant to determining the intent of the parties to a treaty (that is the United States and the Indian tribe), and stems from the idea that in determining the intent of the parties, Indian tribes should be given the benefit of the doubt as against the United States in cases of ambiguous treaty provisions because the United States was presumptively a more sophisticated bargainer.  See Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel Assn., 443 U. S. 658, 675-676 (1979).  But the determination of whether the President has power to enforce his revocation by removal is irrelevant to the intent of the parties to the treaty (the United States and the Chippewa in this case) and presents instead an issue of separation of powers (between the President and the Congress).  One notices the irony that where the President chose to explicitly eliminate the 1887 Treaty rights, the Court finds this specificity subsumed in the 'Removal order,” and invalidates it as well.  The Court maintains that this reading of Race Horse is overbroad and would render any right created by operation of federal law “temporary and precarious.” Ante, at206.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The outer limit of what constitutes a “temporary and precarious” right is not before the Court (nor, since Race Horse is apparently overruled, will it ever *220 be), but the hunting privileges granted in Race Horse and by the 1837 Treaty in this case reveal themselves to be "temporary and precarious” by their plain text: The privilege in Race Horse ended upon occupation of the hunting districts or the outbreak of hostilities, while the privilege in this case lasted only during the pleasure of the President.